CLOSING ARGUMENTS, BOTH SIDES
ARE LOADED TWO HOURS AND HE SAID
SENATORS GAVE HIM A WORD THEY
WANTED THINGS TO BE CONCISE. HE
ONLY LOOKS TO USE ABOUT HALF OF
HIS TIME. AS FAR AS WITNESSES
ARE CONCERNED HE TOLD REPORTERS
YESTERDAY THAT HE WOULD BE
CALLING WITNESSES IF THAT IS
DETERMINED BY THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS TODAY AND
THEY WILL BE TAKING THAT UP AND
DECIDING WHEN IT GETS STARTED ON
THE SENATE FLOOR
AS WELL. AS FAR AS WHAT WE ARE
LISTENING FOR IN THOSE CLOSING
ARGUMENTS, YESTERDAY REPUBLICAN
SENATORS POSED A QUESTION TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S ATTORNEYS
ASKING THEM THE DEFINING
QUESTIONS OF WHAT THE PRESIDENT
KNEW AND WHEN DID HE
KNOW IT. TRUMP'S ATTORNEYS WERE
NOT ABLE TO ANSWER THAT
DEFINITIVELY AND THEY BLAMED THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS FOR
NOT DOING ENOUGH TO GIVE THEM
THAT ANSWER DESPITE THE FACT
THEY ARE REPRESENTING THE
PRESIDENT AS THEIR CLIENT AND
REPRESENTING HIM AND SHOULD KNOW
THAT ANSWER FROM A
FIRST-HAND SOURCE. ONE OF THE
THINGS WE WILL LISTEN FOR TODAY
IS TO SEE IF THEY CAN GIVE ANY
SUBSTANTIAL ARGUMENTS TO THAT IN
DEFENSE OF TRUMP, AS WELL AS THE
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT HE KNEW
ABOUT VICE PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE
AND HIS SAFETY, AND ONCE HE DID
AND WHAT HE DID FINDING OUT
ABOUT THE VIOLENCE.
&gt;&gt; LET'S BRING IN
RHONDA COVEN INTO THIS
CONVERSATION LIVE ON CAPITOL
HILL, THE BIG QUESTION IS DID
SENATORS GET THEIR QUESTIONS
ANSWERED YESTERDAY DURING THE
Q&amp;A. DID THEY HEAR ANYTHING FROM
TRUMP'S LAWYERS THAT GAVE THEM
BELIEF HE SHOULD
BE ACQUITTED, OR GAVE THE
REPUBLICANS DEEPER QUESTIONS AND
CONCERNS ABOUT THE POTENTIAL FOR
CONVICTION. WHAT DO WE KNOW
ABOUT HOW REPUBLICANS ARE
WEIGHING THIS?
&gt;&gt;REPORTER: WE HAVE NOT SEEN A
LOT OF REACTION FROM EITHER SIDE
SINCE LAST NIGHT WHEN THE Q&amp;A
PORTION ENDED SO WE ARE NOT SURE
WHAT THE THINKING IS. WE CAN SAY
FROM THE Q&amp;A THAT ONE OF THE
MAIN ISSUES FOR SOME OF THE
REPUBLICAN SENATORS WHO ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT WHAT TRUMP KNEW
AND WHEN HE KNEW IT, THAT SEEMS
TO BE THERE FOCUSED WHICH IS THE
TIMELINE OF WHEN HE KNEW VICE
PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE WAS IN
DANGER, HE SAID THE
DISPARAGING TWEET, WHY DID HE
NOT CALL IT OFF MORE
EMPHATICALLY AND WHY DID HE NOT
SEND ANY HELP? ACCORDING TO THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS THEY FOUND
NO EVIDENCE THAT HE HELPED BRING
THE NATIONAL GUARD AND HE WAS
NOT PART OF
THOSE DISCUSSIONS. THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS APPEAL IS
HE DID NOT ACT WHEN HE WAS
SUPPOSED TO ACT AND HE ABANDONED
HIS VICE PRESIDENT. THAT SEEMS
TO BE ONE OF THE STICKING POINTS
FOR THESE REPUBLICAN SENATORS
WHO WE ARE CLOSELY WATCHING
TODAY AS OF THE VOTE IS TAKEN,
IT IS BILL CASSIDY OF
LOUISIANA AND LISA MURKOWSKI OF
ALASKA, THEY ASKED THE QUESTIONS
ABOUT TRUMP'S ACTIVITY AS A
RIGHTS WERE GOING ON AT THE TOP
OF TODAY WE WILL SEE THE SENATE
VOTE ON WHETHER THEY SHOULD
SUBPOENA WITNESSES FOR THIS
TRIAL. WE DON'T KNOW IF IT IS
LIKELY AND IT IS SOMETHING WE
WILL HAVE TO WAIT AND SEE. THERE
IS INDICATION AT LEAST WITH ONE
SENATOR, DEMOCRAT
SHELDON WHITEHOUSE, WHO TWEETED
LAST NIGHT HE IS THINKING
WITNESSES MAY BE NEED TO CALL TO
FLESH OUT
THE SITUATION ON THE
CONVERSATION WITH TRUMP AND TRY
TO ESTABLISH IF PRESIDENT TRUMP
KNEW IF VICE PRESIDENT MIKE
PENCE WAS
IN DANGER.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO DIVE BACK AT THE
Q&amp;A YESTERDAY THAT GOT TO THE
HEART OF EXACTLY WHAT YOU HAVE
BEEN TALKING ABOUT, THE
QUESTIONS THE SENATORS HAVE,
HERE IS THE QUESTION POSED BY
SUSAN COLLINS AND LISA MURKOWSKI
AND THE QUESTION WAS WHEN DID
DONALD TRUMP KNOW ABOUT THE
BREACH OF THE CAPITAL AND WHAT
DID HE DO IN THE IMMEDIATE
AFTERMATH? LET'S LISTEN.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE ABLE TO PIECE TOGETHER
A TIMELINE AND IT GOES ALL THE
WAY BACK TO THE DECEMBER 31 AND
JANUARY 2 TIME FRAME, A LOT OF
INTERACTION BETWEEN THE
AUTHORITIES AND GETTING FOLKS TO
HAVE SECURITY BEFORE HAND, ON
THE DAY WE HAVE
TWEET AT 2:38 SO IT WAS SOMETIME
BEFORE THEN WITH THE RUSH TO
BRING THIS IMPEACHMENT THERE HAS
BEEN NO INVESTIGATION INTO THAT.
&gt;&gt; JAMES HELLMAN, THE WAY THIS
ATTORNEY TALKED YOU WOULD THINK
THERE WAS SOME SORT OF FIREWALL
BETWEEN HIM AND HIS CLIENT. HE
IS REPRESENTING DONALD TRUMP AND
THE QUESTION THE TWO SENATORS
WERE ASKING WAS WHEN DID HE
LEARN ABOUT THE BREACH AND WHAT
SPECIFIC ACTIONS DID HE TAKE IT
AND IT AND WHEN? THEY SAID BE AS
DETAILED AS POSSIBLE AND INSTEAD
WE HEARD THE LAWYERS OFF YOU
SKATING WITH OLD DATES AND A
TIMELINE. BUT ULTIMATELY DID WE
LEARN
ANYTHING NEW?
&gt;&gt; THE STONEWALLING IS A
REFLECTION OF THE TRUMP LAWYERS
CONFIDENCE THAT THEY HAVE THE
VOTES THEY NEED AND DO NOT NEED
TO PERSUADE SENATOR MURKOWSKI
OR COLLINS. WE DID NOT LEARN
ANYTHING NEW FROM THE
PRESENTATION BY THE TRUMP
DEFENSE ATTORNEYS OTHER THAN A
FLAT DENIAL THAT TRUMP EVER
KNEW IT VICE PRESIDENT MIKE
PENCE WAS IN GRAVE DANGER WHICH
IS NOT TRUE. OUR REPORTING SAYS
OTHERWISE AND THE SENATOR FROM
ALABAMA REITERATED LAST NIGHT
THAT HE IN FACT SPOKE TO THE
PRESIDENT BY PHONE AND TOLD HIM
MIKE PENCE HAD BEEN EVACUATED.
IT
WOULD BE IN FITTING WITH
STANDARD SECRET SERVICE
OPERATING PROCEDURE TO ALERT THE
PRESIDENT IF THE FIRST, SECOND
AND THIRD PEOPLE IN LINE FOR
PRESIDENTIAL SUCCESSION WERE ALL
BEING EVACUATED SO IT DOES NOT
PASS THE SMELL TEST THAT HE WAS
NEVER TOLD HIS VICE PRESIDENT
WAS IN DANGER, AND UNDERCUTS THE
CREDIBILITY OF THE REST OF THEIR
ARGUMENT. BUT ALSO THERE WAS NO
REAL EFFORT TO SHOW THE
PRESIDENT CARED. IT IS NOT JUST
THE QUESTION OF WHAT TRUMP KNEW
BUT ALSO WHETHER HE CARED. AND
IN THE TWEET WE JUST SAW
MENTIONED BY THE TRUMP DEFENSE
ATTORNEY, THE 2:38 2:30 8
PM TWEET, PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS
CONTINUING TO CRITICIZE MIKE
PENCE THING HE DID NOT DO THE
RIGHT THING HE DID NOT HAVE
BACKBONE AFTER HE APPARENTLY
KNEW THE CAPITAL HAD BEEN
BREACHED AND THE VICE PRESIDENT
HAVE BEEN EVACUATED. THE LAWYER
AT ONE POINT SET OF COURSE TRUMP
CARED ABOUT MIKE PENCE, THEY
HAVE A LONG-STANDING CLOSE
RELATIONSHIP. BUT THAT IS BELIED
BY THE FACT THE CROWD WAS
CHANTING HANG
LIKE PENCE WHICH WAS PLAYING ON
CABLE NEWS AND WE KNOW FROM OUR
OWN REPORTING OF THE WASHINGTON
POST THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS
WATCHING THIS PLAY OUT ON
TELEVISION AND RELISHING IT AND
RESISTANT TO DO ANYTHING TO STOP
IT.
&gt;&gt; JAMES THIS IS IMPORTANT AS IT
GETS TO THE HEART OF WHAT SOME
OF THESE REPUBLICANS HAVE
ALSO TROUBLING. IF WE HEAR
REPUBLICAN SAY I'M VOTING TO
CONVICT IT MAY BE QUITE CLOSELY
TIED INTO THIS MOMENT AND IF
THEY SAY THEY WILL ACQUIT, THEY
WILL USE OTHER REASONS. WE WILL
CERTAINLY BE ASKING THEM IF THEY
HAVE THIS ANSWER SET ASIDE
FOR THEM.
&gt;&gt; WHAT IS SO IMPORTANT IS
ALMOST EVERYONE IN THE ROOM NEW
FIRSTHAND THAT TRUMPS DEFENSE
ATTORNEY WAS ALMOST CERTAINLY
NOT TELLING THE TRUTH. ABOUT
WHAT THE PRESIDENT KNEW BECAUSE
MANY OF THE REPUBLICANS WHO WERE
STILL GOING TO VOTE TO ACQUIT,
INCLUDING
SENATOR TURBERVILLE, WERE THERE
THAT DAY AND TRYING TO REACH THE
WHITE HOUSE AND CALLING THEIR
CONTACTS AT THE WHITE HOUSE AND
THEY WERE PLEADING FOR THE
NATIONAL GUARD TO DEPLOY AND FOR
SWAT TEAMS TO ARRIVE. THERE WAS
FRESH REPORTING LAST
NIGHT ABOUT HOUSE MINORITY
LEADER KEVIN McCARTHY CALLING
YOU TRUMP AND GETTING THROUGH
THEM ON THE PHONE, AND ACCORDING
TO THIS REPORT, SOME SORT OF
PROFANE BACK AND FORTH BETWEEN
McCARTHY AND TRUMP WHERE
McCARTHY WAS YELLING
AT TRUMP TO SEND HELP AND TRUMP
WAS A WELL KEVIN, I GUESS YOU
SHOULD HAVE FOUGHT HARDER TO
OVERTURN THE RESULTS OF THE
ELECTION WHICH APPARENTLY SET
McCARTHY OFF. IT IS REMARKABLE
THERE ARE ALL OF THESE
REPUBLICANS WHO KNOW WHAT REALLY
HAPPENED AND THEY ARE WILLING TO
TALK TO JOURNALISTS ON
BACKGROUND ABOUT IT, BUT ARE NOT
WILLING TO SAY SO PUBLICLY EVEN
THOUGH UNDER OATH ON THE FLOOR
OF THE SENATE TRUMPS LAWYERS ARE
MAKING CONTRARY NAMES.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR TURBERVILLE HAS
REPEATED AGAIN
AND RECOUNTED THAT CONVERSATION
HE HAD WITH DONALD TRUMP BUT I
WILL PARAPHRASE HERE, MISTER
PRESIDENT THEY ARE GETTING THE
VICE PRESIDENT OUT OF HERE, I
HAVE GOT TO GO. AT THE TIME THE
VICE PRESIDENT WAS BEING WHISKED
AWAY, THAT IS BEFORE THE TIME
WHEN DONALD TRUMP SENT THE TWEET
CONDEMNING
MIKE PENCE. THE CONCERN HERE IS
IF YOU JUST HAD A SENATOR TELL
YOU THE VICE PRESIDENT IS BEING
WHISKED AWAY FOR SAFETY AND HE
HAS GOT TO GO, THEN NINE OR 10
MINUTES LATER YOU SEND OUT THIS
SWEET CONDEMNING THE VICE
PRESIDENT, THAT GETS TO THE
HEART OF THIS. IN REGARDS TO
THAT McCARTHY PHONE CALL THAT IS
ALLEGED, CONGRESSWOMAN
HERRERA BUTLER, A REPUBLICAN
FROM WASHINGTON STATE, PUT OUT A
STATEMENT SAYING SHE WAS TOLD
ABOUT THAT CONVERSATION BY KEVIN
McCARTHY AND SHE POINTED OUT
THAT SHE WENT ON RECORD ABOUT
THAT MID-JANUARY TO HER LOCAL
NEWSPAPER. SHE
IS SAYING I WILL SAY IT IS NOT
LIKE BRAND EVIDENCE SHE IS
UNVEILING AT THE LAST MINUTE, I
TALKED TO MY LOCAL NEWSPAPER ON
JENNY WERE 17th AND SHARED IT
WITH LOCAL COUNTY REPUBLICAN
EXECUTIVE BOARD MEMBERS. I WAS
TOLD THIS
CONVERSATION HAPPENED.
&gt;&gt; AND YOUR POINT ABOUT THE
FIREWALL, A GREAT WAY TO PUT IT,
THE TRUMP DEFENSE ATTORNEYS WERE
ACTING LIKE THERE'S SOME HUNDRED
FIREWALL BETWEEN THEM AND THEIR
CLIENT BUT WE KNOW THAT TRUMP
HAS BEEN HANDS-ON IN THE DEFENSE
STRATEGY AND FORMALLY THE
ARGUMENTS THAT WERE OFFERED
YESTERDAY. AND ONE OF THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS SAID RING
Q&amp;A YESTERDAY THAT IF THE TRUMP
TEAM IS ANY EXCULPATORY EVIDENCE
THEY ARE URGED AND WELCOME TO
PRESENT IT. THEY'VE HAD EVERY
OPPORTUNITY AND STILL HAVE EVERY
OPPORTUNITY. IN FACT TRUMP WAS
ASKED TO TESTIFY AND REFUSED TO
TESTIFY TO AVOID
SELF-INCRIMINATION. AND SO THE
ARGUMENT FROM THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS IS IF THERE
IS ANYTHING UNDERCUT THIS
STORYLINE THIS OUT THERE AND THE
TIMELINE WE KNOW ABOUT AND THE
REPORTING THAT HAS BEEN COPIOUS,
THEY COULD OFFER IT UP, THE FACT
THAT THEY ARE NOT AS MORE THAN
JUST A REFLECTION OF THEIR
CONFIDENCE THEY ARE ULTIMATELY
GOING TO WIN, IT IS ALSO A
REFLECTION OF THE FACT THERE ARE
NOT GOOD FACTS FOR
THE PRESIDENT. WHICH IS WHY SOME
OF THE PEOPLE WHO WORKED IN THE
WHITE HOUSE, SENIOR PEOPLE IN
THE WHITE HOUSE AND CABINET
SECRETARIES RESIGNED IN THE
IMMEDIATE AFTERMATH OF JANUARY 6
BECAUSE THEY WERE SO UPSET THE
PRESIDENT WAS DRAGGING HIS FEET
AND WAS REVELING, ALLEGEDLY, IN
THE MAYHEM IN THE CAPITAL
INSTEAD OF ACTING TO GET THE MOB
TO LEAVE.
&gt;&gt; ONE OF THE KEY MOMENTS OF
DRAMAS WHETHER HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS OPT TO CALL WITNESSES
TODAY WHICH WOULD REQUIRE A VOTE
IN THE SENATE AND AT LEAST TWO
DEMOCRATIC SENATORS ARE PUBLICLY
PUSHED FOR THEM, SENATOR JEFF
MERKLEY OF OREGON AND SENATOR
WHITE HOUSE. I WANT TO GO BACK
TO RHONDA FOR THIS QUESTION OF
WHETHER OR NOT, EVERYTHING JAMES
AND I WAS JUST TALKING ABOUT,
WHETHER IT BRINGS MORE OF
DESIRE ON BEHALF OF SENATORS
HERE TO HEAR FROM WITNESSES AND
WHO COULD ANSWER THESE
QUESTIONS, RHONDA?
&gt;&gt;REPORTER: RIGHT AND BECAUSE
WE'RE HEARING THESE TWO SENATORS
SAY THEY WOULD LIKE TO SEE
WITNESSES IS SOME MEDICATION
THAT MAY NOT FEEL THEIR
QUESTIONS WERE ANSWERED DURING
LAST NIGHT'S
Q&amp;A PROCESS. ONE OF THE AREAS WE
KEEP TALKING ABOUT THAT IS KEY,
AND THE REASON WHY THEY WANT
WITNESSES, IS THE IDEA THAT
TRUMP DID NOT DO ENOUGH TO CALL
THE RIOT OFF. AND THE
CONVERSATION WITH TURBERVILLE,
THERE SEEMS
TO BE THE DETAILS NO ONE IS SURE
ABOUT, IT IS THE HEART OF THE
REASON WHY SHELDON WHITEHOUSE
ASKED THAT PERHAPS TOMMY
TURBERVILLE AND PERHAPS KEVIN
McCARTHY BE CALLED AS WITNESSES.
WE HAVE BEEN HEARING THROUGH THE
WEEK THAT THIS IS A TRIAL WHERE
IF THEY DID WANT TO PROLONG IT,
HAVING WITNESSES SEEMS TO BE
SOMETHING THAT WOULD BE
INCREDIBLY RELEVANT. NOT ONLY IS
IT ABOUT THE TURBERVILLE
CONVERSATION, BUT ALSO THE
UNITED STATES CAPITOL POLICE
HERE THERE WERE
ALSO WITNESSES. YOU ALSO HAVE
STAFFERS WHO COULD WEIGH IN ON
SOME OF THESE DETAILS AND WE
HAVE THE AFFIDAVITS WERE WRITTEN
FROM THE FBI FROM MEMBERS OF THE
MOB WHO SAID YES I WAS THERE
BECAUSE I FELT DIRECTED BY
PRESIDENT TRUMP. YOU WOULD THINK
OUT OF ANY IMPEACHMENT TRIAL
THIS ONE WOULD BE THE ONE TO
CALL WITNESSES. WE WILL SEE WHAT
THEY DECIDE, WE ARE NOT HAVING
ANY SORT OF STRONG INDICATION ON
BOTH SIDES OF THE AISLE THEY
WILL SUCCEED IN THE VOTE TO CALL
WITNESSES. BUT IF THEY DID THOSE
WITNESSES WOULD
BE SUBPOENAED. IT WOULD NOT BE
LIKE RASKIN MENTIONED YESTERDAY
WHERE THEY DID INVITE TRUMP LAST
WEEK TO TESTIFY AND HE DECLINED.
THIS WOULD BE A SUBPOENA AND THE
WITNESSES WOULD BE COMPELLED TO
COME IF THE SENATE PASSES THAT.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, THE
TRIAL OF DONALD TRUMP'S FIRST
IMPEACHMENT ABOUT ONE YEAR AGO
OVER THE UKRAINE SCANDAL, THEN
MINORITY LEADER CHUCK SCHUMER
WAS CONSTANTLY SAYING REPEATEDLY
WHEN HE DOCUMENTS AND WITNESSES,
WHEN HE DOCUMENTS AND WITNESSES
AND THEY WANTED TO HEAR FROM
JOHN BOLTON. BUT THEY WERE NOT
IN POWER IN THE SENATE AND
DEMOCRATS DID NOT HOLD THE
MAJORITY, THEY ARE IN POWER IN
THE SENATE NOW AND THAT'S TALK
ABOUT THE CHANGE THAT A
YEAR MAKES.
&gt;&gt;REPORTER: THAT IS RIGHT, THEY
DO HOLD THE POWER SO THEY COULD
FORESEEABLY TRY TO GET ENOUGH
VOTES TO GET WITNESSES IF THAT
IS THEIR DESIRE BUT WE ALSO HAVE
TO REMEMBER SOME DEMOCRATS, EVEN
IF THEY ARE NOT SAYING IT
PUBLICLY, THEY DO WANT TO MOVE
ON FROM THIS AND THEY WANT TO
PICK BACK UP WHERE THEY LEFT OFF
WITH BIDEN CONFIRMATIONS IN THE
$1.9 TRILLION CORONAVIRUS AID
PACKAGE THAT RIGHT NOW IS BEING
WORKED ON IN
THE HOUSE. SO FOR BOTH SIDES
THERE IS A DESIRE TO MOVE THIS
AS QUICKLY ALONG AS POSSIBLE.
BUT YOU ARE RIGHT, CHUCK SCHUMER
NOW HAS THE MAJORITY, THE 50-50
SENATE, AND, LET HARRIS BRING
THE TIEBREAKER VOTE. SO THERE IS
FORESEEABLY THE POTENTIAL THEY
COULD CALL WITNESSES BUT WE ARE
NOT HEARING A STRONG INDICATION
THE VOTE WOULD PASS IT I SAY DO
NOT TAKE ANYTHING OFF THE TABLE
HERE ON CAPITOL HILL, ANYTHING
COULD HAPPEN IN CONVERSATIONS
COULD BE HAD LAST NIGHT TO DO A
WHIP COUNT ON THE WITNESSES
VOTE. WE COULD SEE WHAT HAPPENS
AT THE START OF THE DAY.
&gt;&gt;
JAMES HELLMAN TO YOU ABOUT THIS
QUESTION OF WITNESSES, ARE YOU
HEARING DEVELOPMENTS ON THAT
FRONT? LET'S REMIND THE VIEWERS
OF THE POLITICS AT PLAY.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS EXACTLY RIGHT.
EVERYONE ON THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE
WOULD LOVE TO HAVE WITNESSES AND
THEY WOULD LOVE TO HAVE MIKE
PENCE COME TESTIFY, WHITE HOUSE
AIDES WHO ARE IN THE ROOM
WITH TRUMP. THERE ARE SOME
PRIVILEGED QUESTIONS, AND
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE PROTECTIONS
IT WAS STILL APPLY TO DONALD
TRUMP IS A FORMER PRESIDENT,
WHERE PEOPLE WOULD NOT
NECESSARILY BE FORCED, OR BE
COMPELLED TO TALK ABOUT
CONVERSATIONS WITH TRUMP. BUT
THE POLITICAL QUESTIONS ARE WHAT
TRUMPS THE DAY OR CARRIES THE
DAY, AND THAT IS DEMOCRATS DO
WANT TO MOVE ON AND THE POLLING
ISN'T OVERWHELMING FOR REMOVING
TRUMP OR BLOCKING HIM FROM BEING
ABLE TO RUN AGAIN, FOR
CONVICTING HIM. IT IS A COUPLE
POINTS HIGHER BUT SIMILAR TO
WHAT IT WAS OVER THE LAST
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL. AND THE
OVERWHELMING FOCUS OF MOST
VOTERS ARE POCKETBOOK ISSUES AND
WHEN I SAY THAT I MEAN COVID,
THE
COVID RELIEF, JAY POWELL THE
FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN THIS
WEEK THAT THE REAL UNEMPLOYMENT
RATE IS PROBABLY ABOUT 10% RIGHT
NOW IS PEOPLE UP AND LEAVING THE
WORKFORCE. PRESIDENT BIDEN WANTS
TO DESPERATELY PASSES $1.9
TRILLION COVID RELIEF PLAN NEXT
WEEK IN THE HOUSE HAS BEEN
MOVING FORWARD WITH
THE MARKUP. BUT THERE IS A RISK
IF YOU DRAG IT OUT EVEN ANOTHER
WEEK, EVEN AS THEY DO COMMITTEE
BUSINESS ON THE SIDE, THERE WILL
BE A PERCEPTION THAT DEMOCRATS
ARE FOCUSED ON PUNISHING TRUMP
AND SET OF HELPING THEM THAT IS
A HUGE CONCERN ESPECIALLY AT THE
LEADERSHIP
LEVEL. SHELDON WHITEHOUSE, JEFF
MERKLEY,  TWO OF THE MOST
LIBERAL SENATORS ARE LESS
WORRIED ABOUT THAT AND THEY'RE
BOTH FROM VERY BLUE STATES.
THEIR BASE WOULD LOVE TO DRAW
THIS OUT AND
GET ANSWERS ABOUT WHAT WE ALL
SORT OF ASSUME HAPPENED DURING
THOSE COUPLE OF HOURS ON THAT
JANUARY
6 AFTERNOON. BUT THE PRESSURE
FROM LEADERSHIP CONTINUES TO BE
STRONG, AND FROM THE WHITE HOUSE
WHICH IS TAKING A HANDS-OFF ROLE
BUT PRIVATELY IS EAGER TO TURN
THE PAGE. AND ON THE REPUBLICAN
SIDE, WILL AGAIN IF THERE WAS
EXCULPATORY EVIDENCE, IF CALLING
WITNESSES WOULD HELP TRUMPS CASE
AND PEOPLE WOULD COME AS I WAS
WITH TRUMP AND HE WAS TERRIFIED
ABOUT WHAT WAS HAPPENING AND WAS
ALARMED BUT INSTEAD HE WAS
STYMIED BY THIS OR THAT,
REPUBLICANS WOULD BE EAGER TO
HAVE THOSE WITNESSES COME TO
CLEAR OR
EXONERATE TRUMP. BUT THERE IS NO
INDICATION THOSE WITNESSES
EXIST. AND REPUBLICANS FOR THEIR
POLITICAL PURPOSES WOULD MUCH
RATHER TURN THE PAGE AND MOVE
ON, THEY DO NOT WANT TO CONTINUE
TO BE TIED TO THIS LOW POLY
POINT OF THE TRUMP PRESIDENCY
AND THEY WANT TO BE ABLE TO TALK
ABOUT COVID RELIEF, EVEN IF THEY
DO NOT WANT TO VOTE FOR THE
BILL, THEY WANT TO CRITICIZE JOE
BIDEN FOR HIS EXECUTIVE ORDERS
THAT ARE LESS POPULAR. SO BOTH
OF THIS RARE ALIGNED POLITICAL
INCENTIVE WHICH IS
QUITE DIFFERENT FROM LAST YEAR'S
FIRST IMPEACHMENT TRIAL WHEN
DEMOCRATS DESPERATELY WANTED
WITNESSES AND THEY WANTED TO
HEAR FROM JOHN BOLTON AND HEAR
FROM PEOPLE WHO WERE DIRECTLY
INVOLVED IN THE UKRAINE AFFAIR
WHO HAD REFUSED TO TESTIFY
DURING THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
PROCEEDINGS. BUT REPUBLICANS
WERE EAGER TO MOVE ON BECAUSE IT
WAS NOT IN THEIR INTEREST DEVON
IN THIS PEOPLE TESTIFY. SO THERE
ARE WEIRD CHANGES OF INCENTIVES
BUT IN THIS CASE, NEITHER SIDE
AT THE LEADERSHIP
LEVEL ESPECIALLY, WANTS TO HEAR
FROM WITNESSES AND IT WOULD BE
INTERESTING IF IT COMES UP FOR A
VOTE, IF IT LOOKS LIKE THE
WITNESS QUESTION WILL NOT PASS
YOU COULD END UP HAVING A
SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF PEOPLE SAY
THEY WANT WITNESSES BECAUSE THEY
KNOW THE MEASURE WILL NOT
ACTUALLY PASS. AND YOU COULD
ALSO SEE SOME REPUBLICANS WHO
ARE POSSIBLY ON THE FENCE USING
THE LACK OF WITNESSES AS A
REASON OR JUSTIFICATION FOR
VOTING
AGAINST CONVICTION. SAYING I
WANTED TO HEAR FROM WITNESSES
AND WE WERE NOT ABLE TO GET
THEM. THAT COULD BE THE EXCUSE
ONE OR TWO REPUBLICANS USED TO
VOTE AGAINST CONVICTION.
&gt;&gt; IF WE SEE AN OPPORTUNITY
TODAY TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THAT
WE WILL WATCH, YOU KNOW JAMES,
WE SAW CONGRESSMAN CASTRO COME
INTO THE BUILDING WITH A
BREAKFAST VILLAGE AND A CUP OF
COFFEE, POWERING THROUGH THIS,
THEY DO HAVE SUCH A BIG DAY
AHEAD OF THEM AS DO PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S LAWYERS. WE DID HEAR
FROM CONGRESSMAN CASTRO
YESTERDAY, JAMES, ANSWERING THE
QUESTION THAT MITT ROMNEY AND
SUSAN COLLINS PUT ON BOTH SIDES
ABOUT MIKE PENCE AND WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP KNEW ABOUT MIKE
PENCE BEING IN DANGER AND MISTER
VANDER WIEN SAID NO HE DID NOT
KNOW HE WAS IN DANGER WHICH
DEFIES ALL THE REPORTING AND ALL
INFORMATION THAT HAS COME OUT.
BUT WHAT CONGRESSMAN CASTRO SAID
IT WAS ON TELEVISION AND WE ALL
KNEW IT, IF YOU ANYWHERE NEAR
THE TELEVISION ENTIRE WORLD KNEW
THE VICE PRESIDENT WAS IN THE
CAPITAL BUILDING AND THAT IT WAS
BEING RANSACKED AND UNDER SIEGE.
SO STEPPING BACK FOR MOMENT AND
GIVING THE OBVIOUS
REALITY CHECK ON THE TIMELINE
AND WHAT EVERYONE KNEW FRANKLY
IF YOU ARE ANYWHERE NEAR MEDIA
IN
THAT MOMENT. ONE OF THE
ARGUMENTS PEOPLE ARE MAKING
AGAINST WITNESSES IS ALL OF
THESE JURORS, ALL OF THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, THEY ARE
ALL WITNESSES THEMSELVES BECAUSE
THEY WERE THERE ON THAT DAY. AND
THOSE FIRST-HAND ACCOUNTS IS A
LOT ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED. LET'S
GO LIVE TO NATIONAL REPORTER
NICOLE ELLIS WHO HAS BEEN
CHRONICLING THESE AND TALKING TO
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS TO GET THEM
ON THE RECORD. REGARDLESS OF
WHETHER THE SENATE VOTES TO
CONVICT DONALD TRUMP TODAY,
LAWMAKERS WILL HAVE TO RECONCILE
WITH A CAPITAL COMPLEX THAT MAY
NOT EVER BE THE SAME. WHAT ARE
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS TELLING YOU?
&gt;&gt;REPORTER: A GREAT POINT, A LOT
OF MEMBERS IN CONGRESS I SPOKE
TO THIS VOTE WILL NOT CHANGE
WHAT THEY EXPERIENCE ON JANUARY
6 WHICH IS PARTICULARLY RELEVANT
FOR CONGRESSWOMAN GRACE MING
FROM NEW YORK, HER FAMILY JOINED
HER IN DC AND HAS A HUSBAND AND
TWO SONS AND THEY FELL SHORT OF
COMING WITH HER TO WORK THAT DAY
AND THEY DECIDE TO STAY AT THEIR
DC RESIDENTS
HER SHE SAID TO ME WHAT HER DAY
WAS LIKE AFTER SHE LEFT HOME AND
LET'S TAKE
A LISTEN.
&gt;&gt; AROUND 1:30 OR TWO I GOT AN
ALERT, WE GET THOSE ALL THE TIME
WHAT IS GOING ON AROUND THE
COMPLEX, WE GOT THE ALERT WITH
THEY WERE
EVACUATING THE CANNON BUILDING
AND MINUTES LATER THEY SAID STAY
AWAY FROM DOORS AND WINDOWS ON
THE SAME ALERT. MINUTES LATER
THEY SAID THAT WE WERE ON A
LOCKDOWN AND THEY SAID NO ONE
COULD ENTER OR EXIT. THIS MADE
ME A BIT NERVOUS BECAUSE I KNEW
THAT ONLY MEMBERS AND STAFF WERE
SUPPOSED TO BE IN THE
BUILDINGS. AROUND 2 PM I HEARD
LOUD NOISES OUTSIDE AND IT GOT
LOUDER AND LOUDER. THERE WAS
STOMPING AND BANGING AND
CHANTING.
IN RETROSPECT I DID WHAT I
PROBABLY SHOULD NOT HAVE DONE
WHICH WAS TO TURN ON THE
TELEVISION. I REALIZED THEY WERE
RIGHT OUTSIDE MY ROOM. THEY WERE
COMING FROM THE SENATE SIDE OVER
TO OUR SIDE OF THE HOUSE IN THE
ROOM I WAS IN
BETWEEN THAT HALLWAY. I REALIZED
AT THAT MOMENT THAT EVEN IF THE
CAPITAL POLICE KNEW THAT I
WAS THERE, THEY WERE PROBABLY
NOT ABLE TO COME
GET ME. I REALIZED IF SOMEONE
WERE TO OPEN THE DOOR OR KNOCK
DOWN THE DOOR, THAT I WOULD BE
ON MY OWN.
&gt;&gt; DID YOU THINK THAT DYING WAS
A POSSIBILITY?
&gt;&gt; THIS SOUNDS ODD, BUT I WAS
LESS NERVOUS ABOUT THEM FINDING
ME ARE COMING INTO THE DOOR IN
THE ROOM WHERE I WAS THEN I WAS
FOR THEM TO DISCOVER THAT I WAS
A MINORITY WOMAN. I DID NOT WANT
THEM TO SEE ME
AT ALL.
&gt;&gt; IN THIS CONVERSATION I ALSO
ASKED REPRESENTATIVE MING IF SHE
WOULD TELL HER CHILDREN ABOUT
JANUARY 6 WHO WERE BOTH
CONSIDERABLY YOUNG. SHE SAID
EARLY LAST YEAR IN FEBRUARY WHEN
CORONAVIRUS STARTED TO TAKE HOLD
IN AMERICA SHE STARTED TO TALK
TO THEM ABOUT RACE AND WAS
CONCERNED FOR THEIR SAFETY THEN
AND HAD TO HAVE FRANK
CONVERSATIONS EARLY IN THEIR
LIVES. AND SHE FELT COMFORTABLE
DOING THAT AGAIN AFTER JANUARY
6. BUT SHE TALKED A LITTLE MORE
ABOUT HOW
SO MANY CHILDREN, SO MANY
VETERANS, SO MANY STUDENTS AND
YOUNG ADULTS, THEY USED TO COME
THROUGH THE CAPITAL AND HOW IT
WAS SUCH AN OPEN AND ACCESSIBLE
PLACE WHICH SHE MENTIONED AND
COLLEAGUES MENTIONED THROUGHOUT
THE HEARING AS WELL. AND HOW SHE
FEELS THIS EXPERIENCE AND WHAT
HAPPENED AT THE CAPITAL HAS
ROBBED ALL OF THEM OF SUCH A
SACRED SPACE FOR OUR DEMOCRACY.
THAT CONTEXTUALIZES HOW THIS
EXPERIENCE HAS CHANGED THE LIVES
OF THE MEMBERS OF CONGRESS I'VE
SPOKEN TO, BUT LIKELY CHANGE THE
DYNAMIC OF THIS BUILDING AND
WHERE THEY EXPERIENCES AND SO
MANY OF US HAVE CAST OUR EYES
AND OUR PROFESSIONAL LIVES IN
THIS MOMENT AND IN SO MANY PRIOR
TO IT. BACK TO YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, NICOLE ELLIS
JOINING
RHONDA COLEMAN FOR
THIS REALITY, FOR HOW MEMBERS OF
PROCESSING THIS AND TALKING
ABOUT IT AS THEY GO
BACK HOME. SORT OF THINKING
ABOUT THEIR OWN SAFETY BUT ALSO
WHAT IT MEANS FOR THE FUTURE
POLITICALLY OF DIVISION AND
STRIFE.
&gt;&gt;REPORTER: RIGHT. WELL ON THE
HUMAN AND THERE IS STILL A LOT
OF CONCERN, SENATORS AND
REPRESENTATIVES ARE STILL
WORKING THROUGH THIS. ON THE
HOUSE SIDE NANCY PELOSI HAS
ASKED HER COLLEAGUES TO START
RECORDING THEIR EXPERIENCES AND
SHE HAS SET
UP TIME THEY CAN GO AND TALK TO
A CAMERAMAN AND DISCUSS WHERE
THEY WERE THAT DAY TO DOCUMENT
FOR HISTORY BUT ALSO TO HELP
PROCESS IT. THERE IS ALSO
COUNSELING AND SUPPORT SERVICES
AVAILABLE TO MEMBERS AND STAFF.
THAT
IS ONGOING AND THAT IS HAPPENING
AGAINST THE BACKDROP OF WHAT WE
ARE SEEING THIS WEEK. I KNOW
THAT SENATORS HAVE SAID THAT IF
THIS IS A VOTE FOR ACQUITTAL FOR
TRUMP THEY ARE WORRIED WHAT THIS
WILL TELL THE RIOTERS, THAT
ESSENTIALLY THEY WERE CLAIMING
THEY HAD ONE AND WE SAW THE
SHAMAN WITH THE HORNS AND HE
SAID WE WON THE DAY, WHAT WILL
IT SAY IF TRUMP IS ACQUITTED.
THAT IS ALSO ON THE MINDS. SO
YES MEMBERS ARE STILL WORKING
THROUGH THIS AND PROCESSING IT
EVEN THOUGH THEY HAVE A LOT OF
POLITICS ON THEIR MIND. I KNOW
FROM WHAT WE HAVE HEARD FROM
BOTH SIDES OF THE AISLE, WHEN
THE DEMOCRATS WENT THROUGH THEIR
EXHIBITS AND SHOWING HOW CLOSE
THE MEMBERS WERE TO DANGER, IT
WAS SO SOBERING. WE
HEARD REPORTS FROM OUR POOL
REPORTERS IN THE CHAMBER SAYING
A LOT OF SENATORS WERE RELIVING
THOSE EXPERIENCES THEY HAD FELT
THAT DAY. THAT IS SOMETHING THAT
WILL BE ENDURING ON THE HILL, NO
MATTER WHAT HAPPENS WITH THE
VOTE, THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
WILL STILL BE ON THE MINDS OF
MEMBERS AND STAFF, AND THE STAFF
HAS BEEN TALK ABOUT HOW THIS
AFFECTED THEM AND HOW IT HAS
FELT LIKE A HOME INVASION
REALLY. IT IS SOMETHING THAT
EVEN AFTER THIS VOTE, THEY ARE
STILL DEALING WITH, THE SECURITY
AND THE GATES OUTSIDE WILL
LIKELY BE UP FOR A WHILE. THIS
IS NOT A PLACE I WILL SEE TOUR
GROUPS COMING ANYTIME SOON.
&gt;&gt; THANKS RHONDA, THIS TRIAL HAS
POINTED OUT AND HIGHLIGHTED
DIVISIONS IN THIS COUNTRY AND
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY
SPECIFICALLY. WE ASKED OUR
COLLEAGUE, LILLIAN CUNNINGHAM,
TO REFLECT ON THE PRECEDENTS OF
THE
POLITICAL STRAIN.
&gt;&gt;REPORTER: I'M LILLIAN
CUNNINGHAM THE CREATOR AND HOST
OF THE
PRESIDENTIAL PODCAST. THE
DEMOCRATIC AND REPUBLICAN
PARTIES ARE CONSTANTLY CHANGING
AND EVOLVING AND THEY HAVE
REINVENTED THEMSELVES MULTIPLE
TIMES OVER OUR HISTORY AND AT A
FEW CRUCIAL MOMENTS THEY'VE GONE
SO FAR TO EXPLICITLY REBRAND
THEMSELVES. ONE EXAMPLE THAT WAS
IN 1864. THE CIVIL WAR WAS
RAGING AND
PRESIDENT LINCOLN, A REPUBLICAN,
WAS GOING TO RUN FOR REELECTION.
HE HAD A BIT OF A PARTY PROBLEM.
YOU WERE A NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO
SUPPORTED HIS GOAL OF SAVING THE
UNION BUT FOR VARIOUS REASONS
THEY DID NOT IDENTIFY
AS REPUBLICANS. THEY HAD A BIT
OF AN ISSUE OF THE IDEA OF
VOTING FOR A REPUBLICAN. THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY HAD AN IDEA HE
DECIDED TO ADOPT A FEW NEW PARTY
PLATFORMS IN THAT ELECTION BUT
IT ALSO DECIDED TO TEMPORARILY
CHANGE ITS NAME TO THE NATIONAL
UNION PARTY. AND IN PROOF OF THE
POWER THE POLITICAL LABELS HOLD,
THAT NAME CHANGE WAS ENOUGH TO
MAKE A NUMBER OF NON-REPUBLICANS
FEEL OKAY ABOUT THE IDEA FOR
VOTING FOR LINCOLN IN THE
UPCOMING ELECTION. IT WORKED AND
LINCOLN DID WHEN THE 1864
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION. NOT TOO
LONG AFTER THAT THE NATIONAL
UNION PARTY IS A NAME
DISAPPEARED AND THEY RETURN TO
THE NAME OF THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY.
&gt;&gt; SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO SEE TO
BELIEVE IN WAITING ISN'T AN
OPTION, WATCH FOR THE NEWSROOM
OF THE WASHINGTON POST, WE
EXPLAIN WHAT IS HAPPENING AND
WHY IT MATTERS, THANKS FOR
WATCHING HEADLINES AS THEY ARE
BEING WRITTEN WITH OUR
JOURNALISTS. SUBSCRIBE WITH A
SPECIAL OFFER WITH THE
WASHINGTON POST.COM/WATCH AND
SUBSCRIBE TO THAT LINK EVERYONE
HERE FROM THE FRONT LINES TO THE
CONTROL ROOM NO THAT YOU CARE
ABOUT OUR CONTINUED EFFORTS TO
INFORM THE PUBLIC, PROTECT THE
FIRST AMENDMENT AND FOSTER A
HEALTHY DEMOCRACY WE COULD NOT
DO THIS WITHOUT YOU.
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LAWYERS ARE
ARRIVING OUT INTO
THE CAPITAL. YOU CAN SEE GOING
THROUGH THE SCANNER AND HAVE TO
GIVE A SYMPATHETIC LAUGH BECAUSE
FOR ALL OF US TO GO TO CAPITOL
HILL A LOT, THIS IS PART OF THE
PROCESS, YOU GET REALLY FAST. IF
YOU FLY A LOT
YOU GET TO GOING THROUGH
SECURITY AND REMOVE EVERYTHING
FROM YOUR POCKETS BUT BECAUSE IT
IS A STRUGGLE TO GET THROUGH THE
METAL DETECTOR ISSUES A NEW IT
IS TO BE WITH THEM ON CAPITOL
HILL AND GO THROUGH THE PROCESS.
ONE OF THE LAWYERS QUESTION IF
HE WAS UNDER OATH, APPEARING IN
THE WELL OF THE SENATE ARGUING
AGAINST THE CONVICTION OF THE
FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES. THIS IS NOT THE
NORMAL EXPERIENCE OF THESE
ATTORNEYS, THEY ARE NOT
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW SCHOLARS
OR EXPERTS, AND THEY ARE
ESSENTIALLY PERSONAL INJURY
LAWYERS THAT HAVE GOTTEN THIS
CASE IN SOME WAYS AT THE
LAST MINUTE. LET'S GO TO AARON
BLAKE, SENIOR REPORTER FOR THE
FIX, AND I WANTED TO START OFF
WITH AN IMPORTANT POINT. WE HAVE
HEARD A COUPLE OF TIMES
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LAWYERS BLAME
THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, TRYING TO
CLAIM IT WAS A RUSHED AND
QUICK PROCESS. BUT DONALD TRUMP
CYCLE THROUGH ATTORNEYS BEFORE
LANDING ON THESE GENTLEMEN,
CERTAINLY NOT THE FAULT OF THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS.
&gt;&gt; IT WAS THE SEVENTH OR EIGHTH
LEGAL TEAM HE HAD
GONE THROUGH.
&gt;&gt; I THINK WE'RE HAVING A
PROBLEM WITH YOUR AUDIO AND WE
WILL TRY TO FIX THAT. YOU'RE
ECHOING AND FAR AWAY WE WILL TRY
TO FIX THAT BUT LET'S BRING YOU
AND JAMES, A TIMELINE JAMES OF
THE LAWYERS GETTING
THE CASE.
&gt;&gt; IT WOULD BE THESE THREE SOUTH
CAROLINA LAWYERS BUT THEY WERE
UNWILLING TO ARGUE THE ELECTION
WAS STOLEN AND THAT TRUMP DID
WHEN AND THE FORMER PRESIDENT
WANTED TO BE AS RATIONALE IT
WOULD BE APPROPRIATE FOR HIM TO
BE TALKING ABOUT FIGHTING LIKE
BECAUSE THE ELECTION WAS STOLEN
FROM HIM, THEY WOULD NOT
DO THAT. YOU'RE NOT ALLOWED TO
ARGUE AS A LAWYER SOMETHING YOUR
KNOWING NOT TRUE, AND THE KEY
MOMENT YESTERDAY WAS A QUESTION
FROM BERNIE SANDERS ASKING
MICHAEL VANDER WIEN, WAS TRUMP
WRONG TO SAY THE ELECTION WAS
STOLEN. WAS IT A BIG LIE? HE
TOOK UMBRAGE AT THAT AND REFUSE
TO ANSWER
THE QUESTION, WHICH IS DIFFERENT
FROM EARLIER IN THE WEEK WHEN
BRUCE CASTRO, HIS LAW PARTNER IN
PHILADELPHIA AND THE PERSONAL
INJURY FIRM, DID SAY THAT THE
PEOPLE
REJECTED FROM. YOU DON'T NEED
IMPEACHMENT BECAUSE THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE REJECTED AT THE BALLOT
BOX. SOMETHING OUR SOURCES TELL
US QUITE PERTURBED THE
FORMER PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; LINDSEY GRAHAM COMING IN NOW
AND THE SENATOR OPTING NOT TO
WEAR A MASK. WE KNOW THAT
CONGRESS HAVE HAD AN OPPORTUNITY
TO GET THEIR VACCINATIONS FOR
CORONAVIRUS BUT WE ARE STILL
LEARNING ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT
YOU CAN GIVE OTHER PEOPLE
CORONAVIRUS EVEN IF YOU HAD THE
VACCINES OF THE FACT HE IS
TALKING TO REPORTERS AND STAFF
AND EVERYONE ELSE WITHOUT A MASK
ON, IT COULD POTENTIALLY
ENDANGER OTHERS.
&gt;&gt; RAND PAUL WALKED BY A MINUTE
AGO WITH NO MASK IN THE FUNDING
ABOUT WATCHING THIS FEED AS WE
WAIT FOR THE TRIAL TO BEGIN, IT
IS POLITICIANS TOO, AND YOU
MENTION THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGER JOAQUIN CASTRO WITH HIS
COFFEE AND BREAKFAST SANDWICH,
AND THE PRESIDENT'S LAWYER
HAVING A BAG LIKE
MARY POPPINS.
&gt;&gt; IF HE HAD THE MARY POPPINS
BACK HE WOULD HAVE GOTTEN
THROUGH THEIR FASTER. A BACKPACK
OR PURSE OR BRIEFCASE IS GOING
TO CAPITOL HILL.
&gt;&gt; AND THE FEMALE LAWYER WITH
HIM WITH
RIGHT THROUGH.
&gt;&gt; IT IS A REMINDER OF HOW
DIVIDED WE ARE AS A COUNTRY. A
BUNCH OF THESE REPUBLICANS ARE
NOT WEARING MASKS ANYMORE. AT
THE SAME TIME PRESIDENT BIDEN IS
URGING PEOPLE TO MASK UP BUT WE
ARE DURING A PANDEMIC AND YOU
ARE NYR IN SEPARATE ROOMS THIS
MORNING RATHER THAN THE SAME
ROOM AS WE'RE TAKING THE
PANDEMIC SERIOUSLY. IT IS A
REFLECTION OF HOW DIVIDED THE
COUNTRY IS, FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE
WHO WORK IN THE CAPITAL LIKE
RHONDA WAS SAYING A FEW MINUTES
AGO, FOR THEM IT WAS LIKE 9/11.
THEY EQUATE JANUARY 6 WITH 9/11
IN THEIR MINDS. AND THE FACT
THAT EVERYTHING A MEMBER OF THE
SENATE STOOD UP
LAST NIGHT TO APPLAUD EUGENE
GOODMAN, OFFICER EUGENE GOODMAN,
FORGETTING THE CONGRESSIONAL
MEDAL WHICH WAS UNANIMOUSLY
AGREED TO AND CHUCK SCHUMER AND
MITCH McCONNELL BOTH SPOKE, THEY
ALL AGREE THAT EUGENE GOODMAN
WAS A HERO FOR SAVING THEIR
LIVES, BUT THEY COULD
NOT AGREE WHY IT IS EUGENE
GOODMAN NEEDED TO SAVE THEIR
LIVES. THAT
REFLECTS SOMETHING, SOMETHING
PROFOUND ABOUT THE STATE OF
AMERICAN 2021. AND JUST HOW
DIVIDED THE COUNTRY IS RIGHT
NOW. WE CANNOT AGREE IS THIS
WEEK HAS SHOWN, A SHARED SET OF
FACTS. JAMES WE HAVE BREAKING
NEWS AND THIS WAS
COMING FROM POLITICO AND THE
WASHINGTON POST HAS MATCHED THIS
REPORTING PERIOD MITCH McCONNELL
IS TELLING COLLEAGUES IN A
LETTER HE IS GOING TO VOTE TO
ACQUIT. JAMES.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A SIGNIFICANT,
FRANKLY NOT SURPRISING, BUT IT
IS REVEALING. IT IS A HUGE BLOW
FOR ANY HELP FROM THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS THAT MAY
SOMEHOW GET UNEXPECTEDLY
TO 17. THE TRANSPORTATION
SECRETARY
WIFE RESIDE IMMEDIATELY IN THE
AFTERMATH OF JANUARY 6 THAT SHE
WAS SO ANGRY THE PRESIDENT DID
NOT SEND HELP IMMEDIATELY.
McCONNELL MADE IT CLEAR HE KNOWS
EXACTLY WHAT HE WAS DOING AND HE
HAD HIS AIDES AND CLOSE ADVISERS
CALLING UP SUPPORTERS TO SAY
THAT HE WAS OPEN TO VOTING TO
CONVICT TRUMP. AND THEN HE LET
THE TRIAL BALLOON GO OUT AND
WATCH AS A REPUBLICAN PARTY
RALLIED BEHIND TRUMP, TRIBALISM
HAS BEEN TRUMP'S BEST FRIEND THE
LAST FEW YEARS REALLY. AND
McCONNELL BACKED AWAY FROM THAT.
I THINK THE CRUCIAL VOTE WAS ON
THE CONSTITUTIONAL MATTER, RAND
PAUL FELLOW KENTUCKIAN, PUT UP
THE
TEST VOTE THE WEEK BEFORE LAST
AND VOTED TO SAY THE TRIAL
WASN'T CONSTITUTIONAL AFTER HE
DID THAT IT WAS CLEAR HE WOULD
NOT VOTE TO CONVICT. BUT IT IS
STILL SIGNIFICANT AS HE FANCIES
HIMSELF AS AN INSTITUTIONALIST,
ALTHOUGH HIS RECORD OVER THE
PAST FEW YEARS DOES NOT ALWAYS
LIVE UP TO THAT. HE IS SOMEONE
WHO DID OPPOSE IN VERY STRONG
TERMS THE EFFORT BY PEOPLE TO
BLOCK THE CERTIFICATION OF THE
ELECTORAL COLLEGE RESULTS ON
JANUARY 6. HE HAS BEEN IN THE
SENATE SINCE 1984. HE DOES CARE
ABOUT THE LEGISLATIVE
PREROGATIVE. AND THE FACT THAT
HE HAS FALLEN IN LINE DESPITE
HIS CLEAR ANGER AT TRUMP, HE
ALSO BLAMES TRUMP FOR COSTING
HIM HIS JOB.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, POLITICS
IS WHAT MITCH McCONNELL OPERATES
ON AND HE IS A MASTERFUL
POLITICIAN. THE POINT YOU ARE
ABOUT TO MAKE IS HE COST HIM A
MAJORITY LEADERSHIP IN THE
SENATE, BY INTERFERING IN THE
GEORGIA SENATE RUNOFFS. LET'S GO
TO
RHONDA COLEMAN TO BRING HER IN
ON THIS BREAKING IS THAT MITCH
McCONNELL PLANTS EVENTUALLY QUIT
AND IS LETTING HIS COLLEAGUES
KNOW NOW. IT WILL NOT BE A
SURPRISE AND A WAIT AND SEE HOW
I VOTE ON THE FLOOR, WHICH MAKES
SENSE AS YOU DO NOT WANT TO KEEP
THE CAUCUS GUESSING IS A NEED
THAT TO KNOW HOW TO MAKE THEIR
OWN DECISIONS.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS RIGHT AND HE SAID
EARLIER HE HAS NOT TOLD HIS
CAUCUS OUT TO VOTE AND HE IS
LEFT IT UP TO THEM AND
REPUBLICAN SENATORS SAID THEY
FELT NO PRESSURE FROM THE LEADER
TO CHOOSE ONE WAY OR THE OTHER.
BUT ALSO THIS NEWS ABOUT MITCH
McCONNELL IS INTERESTING BECAUSE
FOUR WEEKS AGO HE WAS ON THE
FLOOR OF THE SENATE AND HE SAID
FROM PROVOKED THE MOB AND THE
MOB WAS FED LIES AND THAT IS A
WHOLE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS CASE
AND THAT IS TRUMP INCITED THIS
MOB AND THAT IS SOMETHING THAT
McCONNELL SEEM TO AGREE WITH A
FEW WEEKS AGO. AND THAT IS ONE
OF THE REASONS WE WERE WATCHING
TO SEE HOW HE ACTED AND HOW HE
WOULD MAKE HIS DECISION TO VOTE.
THAT IS WHAT I'M THINKING ABOUT
RIGHT NOW. HE SAID THAT THEN AND
AS YOU POINTED OUT HE IS A
MASTERFUL POLITICIAN. KENTUCKY
IS STILL A STATE THAT IS VERY
SUPPORTIVE OF FORMER PRESIDENT
TRUMP. HE IS READING THE TEA
LEAVES BACK HOME AND NOW
DECIDING TO VOTE TO ACQUIT. IT
WILL BE INTERESTING
TO SEE IF THIS WAYS ON THE MINDS
OF THOSE IN HIS CAUCUS AND IF
HIS VOTE HAS ANY SORT OF
IMPLICATIONS FOR THE OTHER
REPUBLICAN SENATORS HE MAY BE ON
THE FENCE.
&gt;&gt; AARON BLAKE LET'S BRING YOU
BACK TO THE CONVERSATION, YOU
KNOW RHONDA'S LAST POINT IS
IMPORTANT. BECAUSE IF MITCH
McCONNELL WAS GOING TO VOTE TO
CONVICT IT WOULD GIVE COVER TO
SOME OF THE MODERATES LIKE LISA
MURKOWSKI AND
SUSAN COLLINS, WHO ONE YEAR AGO
VOTED TO ACQUIT THE PRESIDENT IN
THE FIRST IMPEACHMENT TRIAL AND
LISA MURKOWSKI CITING CONCERNS
WITH THE PROCESS AND NOT WITH
TRUMP'S BEHAVIOR.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I THINK IT MAKES THE
IDEA THAT WE WILL HAVE SEVERAL,
MORE THAN A COUPLE OF A FEW
VOTES TO CONVICT IN THE
REPUBLICAN SENATE CAUCUS, VERY
UNLIKELY IT MAY NOT HAVE BEEN
LIKELY BEFORE WE LEARNED THIS
AND IT IS IMPORTANT TO NOTE WHAT
MITCH McCONNELL ACTUALLY SAID
ABOUT THE CAPITAL RIOT. A LOT OF
REPUBLICANS IN THE HOURS AND
FEW DAYS AFTERWARDS, THEY
REFERENCE THE PRESIDENT'S ROLE
IN THERE IS ONE POINT OR SENATOR
KEVIN KRAMER ACTUALLY SAID THE
PRESIDENT WAS INCITING WITH HIS
SPEECH AND HE USED THE WORD
INCITING OF COURSE NOW IT LOOKS
LIKE HE IS GOING TO ACQUIT.
MITCH McCONNELL GAVE A SPEECH, I
BELIEVE ON
JANUARY 19,, TO SAY THAT THESE
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN PROVOKED TO THE
PRESIDENT. WE CAN PARSE THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN PROVOKED AND
INCITED. THEY ARE LISTED AS
SYNONYMS IN MERRIAM-WEBSTER. BUT
THE IDEA THAT HE MADE THAT
STATEMENT 13 DAYS LATER, IT WAS
NOT A HEAT OF THE MOMENT
REACTION, NOT
HIMSELF CAN SAID THE PRESIDENT
HIMSELF
AND VOTE TO INCITE THESE PEOPLE
AND IT IS SHOWING HOW UNLIKELY
IT IS WE WILL GET PAST MITT
ROMNEY AND LISA MURKOWSKI AND
SUSAN COLLINS OF THIS CAUCUS
VOTING TO CONVICT, A VERY
SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENT.
&gt;&gt; LET'S TALK ABOUT THE TACTICS
THE DEFENSE TEAM HAS USED THE
TRIAL AND LIKELY MORE TODAY, THE
ARGUMENT THAT DEMOCRATS AND
CELEBRITIES, QUESTIONS OF THEIR
RELEVANCE, BUT EVEN CELEBRITIES
USE OF THE TERM FIGHT OFTEN
POLITICAL SPEECH SO HOW ARE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS WORKING TO
COUNTER THAT CHARGE IN THESE
CLOSING
ARGUMENTS TODAY?
&gt;&gt; I THINK THE IDEA I REFERENCED
YESTERDAY WHEN I WROTE ABOUT ALL
OF THIS IS YOU CAN PULL
ANECDOTES IN CHERRY PICK THINGS,
THERE ARE MANY CLIPS I THINK
THEY PLAYED THAT WERE
POTENTIALLY OBJECTIONABLE,
LANGUAGE POLITICIANS MIGHT WANT
TO AVOID. BUT WHEN YOU PULL IT
OUT OF THE CONTEXT OF THESE
THINGS LEADING TO SOMETHING OR
ALLEGEDLY LEADING TO SOMETHING
VIOLENT, WHEN YOU TAKE AWAY THE
PRESIDENT HAVING CLAIMED FOR
MANY WEEKS AND MONTHS WITHOUT
ANY REAL SUBSTANTIATION THAT THE
ELECTION WAS GOING TO BE STOLEN
FROM HIM OR WOULD BE STOLEN,
WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT WITH THE
DEMOCRATS HAVE FOCUSED A LOT ON,
WAS THE APPARENT INDIFFERENCE TO
WHAT HAPPENED EARLY IN THE
CAPITAL RIOT. I THINK THE CASE
FOR THEM IS BRING ALL OF THOSE
THINGS TOGETHER. ANY ONE OF THE
THINGS COULD SEE RESEMBLANCE TO
WHAT WE'VE SEEN IN POLITICAL
LIFE BEFORE BUT WHEN YOU COMBINE
NOT JUST A COMBINATION OF THEM
BUT THE RESULT OF PEOPLE
STORMING THE
CAPITAL, HISTORIC, NOT SOMETHING
THAT WE SAW HAPPEN AFTER ANY OF
THE CLIPS THEY PLAYED OF
DEMOCRATS TALKING ABOUT
FIGHTING. IT REALLY REINFORCES
THAT YOU CAN CHERRY PICK YOUR
CASE BUT IT DOES NOT BEAR ANY
RESEMBLANCE TO THE REALITY OF
WHAT HAPPENED ON
JANUARY 6. I WOULD EXPECT AS WE
DEBATE THE WITNESSES TODAY
DEMOCRATS WILL REINFORCE IT IS
NOT JUST ABOUT THE PRESIDENT
SAYING FIGHT A FEW TIMES IN THE
SPEECH AND NOT JUST ABOUT HIM
SAYING THE ELECTION WAS STOLEN A
FEW TIMES BUT A COMBINATION OF
ALL THE THINGS COMING TOGETHER
AND WHETHER OR NOT YOU THINK
THAT COMBINATION COMBINES TO THE
INCITEMENT, THAT IS THE ARGUMENT
AND NOT WHAT WE SAW IN ANY OF
THE CLIPS WE SAW FROM THE TRUMP
LEGAL TEAM
ON FRIDAY.
&gt;&gt; IN ABOUT 15 MINUTES THE
SENATE WILL GAVEL IN AND LET'S
GO TO JAMES HILLMAN ON WHAT TO
EXPECT. FIRST THE QUESTION OF
WITNESSES AND LET'S REMIND THE
VIEWERS AND OURSELVES THAT IT IS
UP TO THE TO SIDES AS TO WHETHER
THEY REQUEST TO CALL WITNESSES
AND AT THAT POINT THE SENATE
PASSED AWAY IN WENT TO FIGURE
OUT IF SENATORS HAVE TO GO ON
THE RECORD AND VOTE YES OR NO TO
ALLOW THE
WITNESSES RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; YES THIS COULD BE DISPATCHED
WITH QUICKLY AND FOR THE REASONS
WE TALKED ABOUT A FEW MINUTES
AGO, THAT IS BOTH SIDES OF
POLITICAL INCENTIVES TO MOVE ON.
AND NOT DRAG IT OUT FOR
DIFFERENT REASONS. IT IS JUST
NOT LIKELY TO HAPPEN. THOUGH
THERE IS SOME CHANCE THAT EVERY
SENATOR HAS A LOT OF POWER AND A
SINGLE SENATOR OR SOMEONE LIKE
A SHELDON WHITEHOUSE OR JEFF
MERKLEY, TWO OF THE MORE LIBERAL
MEMBERS OF THE CHAMBER , COULD
MAKE SOME KIND OF MOTION A CALL
FOR WITNESSES WHICH COULD FORCE
A VOTE. ON THE OTHER HAND, IF
MAJORITY LEADER CHUCK SCHUMER
DOES NOT WANT THEM TO, HE HAS
QUITE A LOT OF POWER TO MOVE ON
FROM THAT. IT IS NOTABLE THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE
NOT AGITATING FOR WITNESSES AND
THEY ALSO COULD BE SAYING WE
WANT WITNESSES. AND PRIVATELY
THEY DID WANT TO CALL WITNESSES.
BUT PUBLICLY THEY UNDERSTAND THE
BIGGER PICTURE AND THEY DO NOT
WANT TO STYMIE PRESIDENT BIDEN'S
FIRST 100 DAYS. EVEN DURING THE
Q&amp;A YESTERDAY WE COULD HAVE HER
THAT AS A REFRAIN, CALL
WITNESSES AND LET US BRING THEM
IN AND ASK THESE QUESTIONS BUT
THEY DID NOT DO THAT. IT WOULD
BE FASCINATING TO WATCH AS WE
DON'T KNOW ENTIRELY HOW IT WILL
PLAY OUT BUT I DON'T THINK IT IS
SOMETHING THAT WILL DRAG ON FOR
A BIG PART OF THE MORNING.
&gt;&gt; AFTER THAT WE GO THROUGH
PROCEDURAL MOTIONS AND THEN
MAYBE GET ON TO CLOSING
STATEMENTS WHICH COULD BE A
MAXIMUM OF FOUR HOURS BETWEEN
THE TWO SIDES. INTERESTINGLY,
WHEN ONE OF OUR COLLEAGUES ON
THE HILL WAS ASKING A TRUMP
LAWYER FOR A LONG THEY WOULD GO,
THE TRUMP ATTORNEY DID NOT TO
REALIZE HOW MUCH TIME HE HAD. HE
CONFUSED HIMSELF HOW MUCH TIME
HE HAD, WHICH GOES ON YOU OF AN
EXPERIENCE THIS IS IN A
VERY HIGH-STAKES. BUT NOT A LOT
OF RISK ESSENTIALLY FOR
CONVICTION GIVEN HOW REPUBLICANS
OF COMING TO THIS TRIAL WITH
THEIR MINDS MADE UP. DEMOCRATS
HAVE THEIR MINDS MADE UP BUT
REPUBLICANS ARE THE ONES WHERE
WATCHING.
&gt;&gt; YEAH ONE OF THE THINGS IS I
READ McCONNELL'S NOTE
HE SENT TO HIS REPUBLICAN
COLLEAGUES. WHAT MATTERS IS THE
FINAL VOTE, HE SAID THIS IS A
VOTE OF CONSCIENCE AND I WILL
NOT BEGRUDGE ANY REPUBLICAN
SENATOR FOR VOTING TO CONVICT
AND HE SAID THIS IS A CLOSE
CALL.
&gt;&gt; WITH A CLOSE CALL HE SAYS I
AM PERSUADED THAT IMPEACHMENTS
ARE A TOOL PRIMARILY OF REMOVAL
AND WE THEREFORE
LACKED JURISDICTION.
&gt;&gt; WHAT WE HAVE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT ALL WEEK, LIBBY, THE
PROCEDURAL OFFRAMP. HE IS NOT
DEFENDING TRUMP'S CONDUCT OR
BACKING OFF HIS EARLIER COMMENT
THAT TRUMP PROVOKED
HIS GROUP, HE IS FOCUSING ON
BASICALLY
CONSTITUTIONAL LOOPHOLES TO TRY
TO JUSTIFY
NOT GETTING WITH THE BASIN
HAVING A MAJORITY OF REPUBLICANS
TURN AGAINST HIM WHEN HE IS THE
REPUBLICAN LEADER IN THE SENATE.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO BACK TO
JOYCE COE AT THE WHITE HOUSE AND
WERE WATCHING TO SEE IF THERE
WILL BE A VOTE ON WITNESSES AND
WHAT ARE WE HEARING FROM THE
TRUMP TEAM?
&gt;&gt;REPORTER: THIS MORNING BRUCE
CASTOR ONE OF TRUMP'S ATTORNEY
TOLD OUR REPORTERS YESTERDAY
THAT THEY WOULD BE CALLING
WITNESSES IF THAT IS WHAT THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS HAVE
DECIDED. AS THERE HAS BEEN A
SMALL NUMBER OF DEMOCRATIC
SENATORS PRESSURING HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS SAYING THEY
WANT TO CALL WITNESSES IN THIS,
WE HAVE NOW HEARD
FROM TRUMP'S LEGAL DEFENSE AND
THEY ARE SIDE OF THINGS. AND ONE
OF OUR REPORTERS REPORTING THAT
A PERSON FAMILIAR WITH A TRUMP
LEGAL TEAM WHO SAID THE SOLE
CHARGE OF INCITEMENT DOES NOT
DIRECTLY DEAL WITH THAT ISSUE.
THEY ALSO SAID THEY ARE VERY
MUCH READY IF WITNESSES BEGIN
GETTING CALLED. THEY SAID THE
FIRST TWO WITNESSES THAT TRUMP'S
LEGAL DEFENSE WOULD CALL WOULD
BE NANCY PELOSI AND MARIELLE
BOWSER TO ASK THEM UNDER OATH
AND ON CAMERA WHY THEY DID NOT
REQUEST ADDITIONAL SECURITY AND
NATIONAL GUARD ASSISTANCE. IF
DEMOCRATS WANT TO GO DOWN THAT
ROAD WE ARE READY. I JUST WANTED
TO MENTION THAT BOWSER DID
REQUEST A NATIONAL GUARDSMEN TO
BE THERE THAT DAY AND THAT
REQUEST WAS DENIED. WE HEARD
REPORTS THAT NANCY PELOSI, CHUCK
SCHUMER WERE ON THE PHONE CALLS
THAT DAY WITH THE GOVERNOR OF
MARYLAND TO SEE THEY COULD GET
ANY BACKUP REINFORCEMENTS, THAT
IS
THE LATEST REPORT FROM OUR
REPORTER WHO HAS HEARD FROM A
PERSON FAMILIAR WITH TRUMP'S
LEGAL TEAM ON WHAT THEIR
RESPONSE WOULD BE TO POTENTIAL
WITNESSES
GETTING CALLED. THANK YOU AND
AARON BLAKE I REMEMBER IN REAL
TIME THAT THE GOVERNOR OF
VIRGINIA SAYING HE WAS GETTING
CALLS FROM DEMOCRATIC
HOUSE LEADERSHIP, AND IT WAS
NANCY PELOSI, IMAGINE GETTING A
CALL FROM THE SPEAKER OF THE
HOUSE BECAUSE PEOPLE INSIDE THE
CAPITOL COMPLEX WERE URGENTLY
TRIED TO SCRAMBLE TO FIGURE OUT
HOW TO GET SOME SORT OF NATIONAL
MOBILIZE AND
MILITARIZE HELP.
&gt;&gt; IT IS AMAZING IT IS
CHARACTERIZED AS A THREAT FROM
TRUMP'S LEGAL TEAM TO CALL NANCY
PELOSI AND CALL MURIEL BOWSER,
JUST TO LEARN MORE ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED THAT DAY. THEY HAVE
BEEN MAKING THESE KINDS OF
THREATS FOR A FEW WEEKS NOW.
LINDSEY GRAHAM HAS BEEN DOING
THIS ON FOX NEWS AT NIGHT
CALLING PEOPLE WITH INFLUENCE ON
THE WHOLE PROCESS, YOU KNOW
BARACK OBAMA AND HILLARY
CLINTON, THERE WAS A TIME HE WAS
TALKING TO SEAN HANNITY
ABOUT THAT. THE IDEA THAT WE
WOULD NOT WANT TO LEARN MORE
ABOUT THE SITUATION FROM
WITNESSES LIKE THAT IS A
COMMENTARY ON THIS PROCESS.
MURIEL BOWSER AND NANCY PELOSI,
WHEN THEY ASKED FOR NATIONAL
GUARD HELP, MAY NOT BE AN
IMPORTANT QUESTION AROUND
INCITEMENT HERE BUT LEARNING
ABOUT THE TIMELINE OF THINGS,
AND MAYBE GETTING CLUES FROM THE
CAPITAL POLICE,
FROM DEFENSE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIALS AND THE FORMER DEFENSE
SECRETARY, ABOUT HOW THIS
PROCESS PLAYED OUT ON JANUARY 6
AND THE DAYS BEFORE IT WOULD BE
VALUABLE WHEN IT COMES TO THE
YOUNG EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED. I
THINK IT IS ODD THESE THINGS ARE
BEING HELD OUT THERE IS A
THREAT. IT ALSO PUTS PRESSURE ON
DEMOCRATS BECAUSE NOW IF THEY DO
NOT CALL WITNESSES LOOKS LIKE
THEY WILL HAVE BEEN SUCCESSFULLY
THREATENED BY THEIR TRUMP LEGAL
TEAM. CERTAINLY NOT A GREAT
SITUATION FOR THEM AS THEY
CONFRONT A KEY DECISION TODAY ON
CALLING WITNESSES.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA COLVIN, OUR COLLEAGUE
MIKE DEBONIS IS
THERE TODAY, SAYING A LOT OF US
OCCURS ABOUT THE SITUATION WITH
THE VICE PRESIDENT SOCIAL
QUESTIONS UNANSWERED AND WENT
ASKED ABOUT WITNESSES SHE SAID I
WILL LISTEN FOR ANY ARGUMENT,
NOT ADVOCATING FOR IT BUT
WILLING TO LISTEN AND ENTERTAIN
THE
CONVERSATION, RHONDA. WHAT DO
THESE SENATORS DO IF THEY STILL
HAVE UNANSWERED QUESTIONS AT
THIS MOMENT?
&gt;&gt; THEY COULD VOTE FOR WITNESSES
IF THEY FEEL IT WOULD GET THEM
SOME ANSWERS. BUT THE POINT THAT
MURKOWSKI IS STILL BRINGING UP,
IT RAISES AN INTERESTING POINT,
THE TIME THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS SPENT ON THE DANGER
MIKE PENCE WAS IN AND SHOWING
THE VIDEO THAT HAD NOT BEEN SEEN
BEFORE, LOOKING AT THE TRUMP
TIMELINE OF WHEN HE KNEW MIKE
PENCE WAS IN TROUBLE AND WHEN HE
EVENTUALLY SENT OUT THE
VIDEO TWEET, THAT SEEMS TO BE
THE MOST CONCERNING ISSUE RIGHT
NOW OUT OF ALL THE ISSUES THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS SPENT TWO
DAYS ON. THEY BROUGHT UP HOW IT
MAKES US LOOK ON THE WORLD STAGE
AND THE COST IT HAS TAKEN TO
FORTIFY THE CAPITAL AS WELL AS
OTHER UNITED STATES
STATE CAPITALS. THEY HAVE DONE
SO MUCH OVER THE LAST TWO DAYS
BUT WHAT STICKS IN PEOPLE'S
MINDS IS THE ISSUE WITH PINS. IT
APPEARS TRUMP ABANDONED HIS VICE
PRESIDENT AND PUTTING THE
CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT AND
DANGER OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
SENATE, CHUCK GRASSLEY AND NANCY
PELOSI ALL IN LINE FOR THE
PRESIDENCY IS SOMETHING WERE TO
HAPPEN, THEY WERE ALSO
IN DANGER. AND THEY SPENT A LOT
OF WEDNESDAY TALK ABOUT THE FACT
THAT THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
WERE USING MIKE PENCE
A LOT AND WHEN WE LOOK AT HOW
THIS TRIAL PLAYED OUT AND HOW IT
WAS ARGUED THAT WAS A CRITICAL
PART OF THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
ARGUMENT THAT SEEM TO WORK AMONG
THE REPUBLICANS.
&gt;&gt; AARON BLAKE YOU HAVE BEEN
FOCUSED ON THE WRITING OF THE
TIMELINE OF THE SERIOUS
QUESTIONS THAT REMAIN. DO YOU
ANTICIPATE WE WILL GET MORE
CLARITY ON THAT TODAY?
NOT IF THERE ARE WITNESSES
CALLED AND THE TRUMP LEGAL TEAM
HASN'T BEEN WILLING TO EXPOUND
MUCH ON THAT. I THOUGHT IT WAS
INTERESTING YESTERDAY THAT TO
THE EXTENT THAT WE HAVE
LAWMAKERS ASKING
SINCERE QUESTIONS AND TRYING TO
GET MORE INFORMATION THEY'RE
COMING FROM THE MIDDLE OF THE
ROAD SENATORS OPEN FOR
CONVICTION AND LISA MURKOWSKI
AND SUSAN COLLINS ASKED A LOT
ABOUT WHEN PRESIDENT TRUMP KNEW
THERE WAS A SIGNIFICANT DANGER
TO LAWMAKERS AND MICHAEL VANDER
WIEN RESPONDED THAT HE TWEETED
AT 2:38 BUT WE HAVE TO DO MORE
INVESTIGATION. WHILE YOU CAN
TALK TO THE CLIENT ABOUT THESE
THINGS, THE TIMELINE IS A VERY
BASIC THING TO GO OVER THE
MOMENT YOU TAKE UP
A CLIENT. AND THEN OF COURSE WE
HAD MET ROMNEY ASKING ABOUT
WHETHER OR NOT THE PRESIDENT
KNEW THAT VICE PRESIDENT MIKE
PENCE WAS IN DANGER WHEN HE
TWEETED WHAT HE DID AT 2:2 4 PM
AND AT
THIS POINT VANDER WIEN HAD AN
ANSWER SAY NO THE PRESIDENT DID
NOT KNOW. SO HOW DO YOU KNOW
THAT HE DID NOT KNOW ABOUT VICE
PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE'S PERIL
THAT YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT HE CAN
DEPRECIATE A SITUATION IN THE
CAPITAL. ALL THESE THINGS THAT
COULD BE SHED LIGHT UPON, IF YOU
CALL WITNESSES, BUT WITHOUT THAT
IT WOULD JUST BE AN AMORPHOUS
BLOB WE DON'T KNOW A LOT ABOUT.
THAT IS ONE OF THE REASONS WE
ARE SEEING SENATORS LIKE SHELDON
WHITEHOUSE AND  JEFF MERKLEY
LANE MORE THEIR COLLEAGUES TO
CALL WITNESSES AS WE ARE NOT
GOING TO FIND THAT STUFF OUT
TODAY UNLESS WE HAVE SOME
WITNESSES CALLED. AND OF COURSE
THEY DO NOT WANT TO DRAG OUT THE
PROCESS GIVEN THE OUTCOME.
&gt;&gt; SENATORS FILTERING INTO
THE CHAMBER. JAMES HOME AND IF
PEOPLE JUST JOINED THIS LAST FEW
MINUTES THAT'S JUMP OFF THE
POINT, THE VERY IMPORTANT POINT,
THAT THE BIG QUESTION THAT A LOT
OF MODERATES WHO MAY BE OPEN TO
CONVICTION HAVE IS THE TIMELINE
AROUND WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP DID
IN THE IMMEDIATE AFTERMATH, AND
THE HOURS AFTER THE ATTACK WAS
UNFOLDING LIVE ON NATIONAL
BROADCAST, AND WHEN THE
PRESIDENT INSTEAD OF DEMANDING
THE
RIOTERS STOP, INSTEAD OF CLEARLY
SENDING IN NATIONAL MILITARIZE
HELP, WAS TWEETING DISPARAGING
COMMENTS ABOUT MIKE PENCE. SO WE
HEARD TRUMPS LAWYER
YESTERDAY SAY HE DID NOT KNOW
THAT MIKE PENCE WAS IN DANGER
BUT IT DOESN'T SQUARE WITH ALL
OF THE REPORTING IN THE TIMELINE
WHICH HAS BEEN LAID OUT,
INCLUDING BY OTHER SENATORS WHO
TALK TO PRESIDENT TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; WHAT IS AMAZING ABOUT ALL OF
THAT, LIBBY, IS MIKE PENCE
CONTINUE TO BE LOYAL TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP THROUGH THIS AND
MIKE PENCE'S TEAM TOLD OUR
COLLEAGUES THAT THE TRUMP LAWYER
WAS LYING, THAT TRUMP DID KNOW
AND HE DID NOT CARE AND DID NOT
DO ANYTHING, THAT HE DID NOT
CHECK ON MIKE PENCE. THE ONLY
TIME THAT TRUMP ENDED UP FINDING
OUT MIKE PENCE WAS OKAY IS WHEN
MARK SHORT, MIKE PENCE CHIEF OF
STAFF, WHO CALLED MARK MEADOWS,
TRUMPS CHIEF
OF STAFF, TO SAY THEY WERE SAFE
AND THIS IS AN HOUR AFTER WHAT
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT. TRUMP
NEVER INQUIRED.
IT IS REMARKABLE THAT A LOT OF
THESE SENATORS KNOW THIS TO BE
TRUE, THEY KNOW MIKE PENCE THAT
HE USED TO BE IN CONGRESS FOR A
DECADE, AND SO THEY ARE STILL
GOING TO VOTE
TO ACQUIT. BUT THESE PEOPLE ON
THE MARGIN WHO ARE TAKING THIS
SERIOUSLY, THEY HAVE ALL TAKEN
OATHS TO RENDER IMPARTIAL
JUSTICE AND THIS IS THE DECISIVE
THING BECAUSE IT SPEAKS TO
TRUMPS STATE
OF MIND. WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT
THE LEGAL STANDARD AND THE
CONSTITUTIONAL STANDARD FOR
INCITING AN INSURRECTION. IF
TRUMP DID NOT CARE THAT HIS
NUMBER TWO WAS IN GRAVE JEOPARDY
AND TRUMP DID NOT WANT TO DO
ANYTHING TO STOP IT, IT DOES
MAKE IT LOOK LIKE HE WAS TRYING,
OR CERTAINLY AT THE VERY LEAST,
HAPPY WITH HIS SUPPORTERS WHO HE
HAD JUST SPOKEN TO ONE HOUR
EARLIER BREACHING THE CAPITAL IS
USING THE SENATE CHAMBER.
TO CALL WITNESSES, THE SENATE
COULD DEBATE AND VOTE ON THAT,
BUT WE WILL SEE IF ANYONE EVEN
BRINGS THAT UP, WE ARE HEARING
FROM SOME DEMOCRATS ON THE
SENATE
SAY THEY WOULD LIKE TO SEE
WITNESSES BUT WHETHER THAT WOULD
CULMINATE IN A DISCUSSION AND
DEBATE ON THE FLOOR TODAY,
REMAINS TO BE SEEN, AND THEN AT
THAT POINT WE CAN MOVE INTO THE
CLOSING ARGUMENTS AFTER OTHER
PROCEDURAL THINGS.
JUST IN THE MOMENT WE HAVE HERE
AS WE PREPARE FOR THE SENATE TO
CONVENE, THIS COULD WRAP UP
TODAY, WE COULD SEE A FINAL VOTE
TODAY.
&gt;&gt; IT VERY WELL COULD WRAP UP
TODAY, AND THAT IS FAR DIFFERENT
THAN LAST TIME.
RELATED CLOSING ARGUMENTS, IF
YOU REMEMBER THERE WAS THE STATE
OF THE UNION ADDRESS THAT
EVENING AND THEN THE NEXT DAY
THEY CAME IN AND VOTED --
&gt;&gt; WE WILL HOLD OFF NOW, I WANT
TO THANK RHONDA, JAMES, ERIN,
SENATOR LEAHY IS THERE AND WE
CAN SEE CHAPLAIN BARRY LACK
STARTING UP, HE'S BEEN STARTING
WITH A PUT
PRAYER THAT HAS BEEN A MESSAGE
TO SENATORS AS THEY BEGAN TO
START THE DAY. LET'S WATCH.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; LET US PRAY. OH LORD, OUR GOD
. YESTERDAY THIS CHAMBER
REVERBERATED TO A STANDING
OVATION FOR THE COURAGE OF
OFFICER EUGENE GOODMAN IN
DEFENDING THIS BUILDING AND
HUMAN LIFE. MAY OUR LEGISLATIVE
JURORS STRIVE TO EMULATE HIS
COURAGE IN THEIR DEFENSE OF THE
UNITED STATES CONSTITUTION.
LORD, TOUCH AND MOVE THEM TO
BELIEVE THAT THE AND DOES NOT
JUSTIFY THE MEANS. HELP THEM TO
REMEMBER THAT THE END
INHERENT AND BUILT IN TO THE
MEANS. FILL OUR SENATORS WITH
THE SPIRIT THAT COMBINES COMMON
SENSE WITH COMMITMENT,
CONSCIENCE, AND COURAGE. WE PRAY
IN YOUR MERCIFUL NAME, AMEN.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE JOIN ME IN RECITING
THE PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE.
ONE NATION UNDER GOD,
INDIVISIBLE, WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL.
&gt;&gt;
SENATORS, PLEASE BE SEATED.
IF THERE'S NO OBJECTION, THE
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE
TRIAL ARE PROVED TO DATE, AND
I ASKED THE SERGEANT AT ARMS TO
MAKE THE PROCLAMATION.
&gt;&gt; HEAR YE,
ALL PERSONS ARE COMMANDED TO
KEEP SILENCE ON PAIN OF
IMPRISONMENT WHILE THE SCENTED
OF THE UNITED STATES IS SITTING
FOR THE TRIAL OF THE ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT EXHIBITED BY THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES AGAINST
DONALD DRAW JOHN TRUMP FORMER
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATE HAS PROVIDED
UP TO TWO HOURS OF ARGUMENT BY
THE PARTIES EQUALLY DIVIDED. ON
THE QUESTION OF WHETHER OR NOT
IT SHALL BE IN ORDER TO CONSIDER
AND DEBATE UNDER THE IMPEACHMENT
RULES, AND EMOTION TO SUBPOENA
WITNESSES OR DOCUMENTS. ARE BOTH
PARTIES READY TO PROCEED AT THIS
POINT?
THEY MAY PROCEED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR. PRESIDENT, GOOD
MORNING, SENATORS, OVER THE LAST
SEVERAL DAYS WE PRESENTED
OVERWHELMING EVIDENCE THAT
ESTABLISHES THE CHARGES IN THE
ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT. WE'VE
SHOWN YOU HOW PRESIDENT TRUMP
CREATED A POWDER CAKE, LIT A
MATCH AND CONTINUED HIS
INCITEMENT EVEN AS HE FAILED TO
DEFEND US FROM THE ENSUING
VIOLENCE. WE'VE SUPPORTED ARE
SOME POSITION WITH IMAGES,
DOCUMENTS, TWEETS AND OTHER
EVIDENCE LEAVING NO DOUBT
THAT THE SENATE SHOULD CONVICT.
WE BELIEVE WE HAVE PROVEN OUR
CASE. BUT LAST NIGHT,
CONGRESSMAN JAMIE HERRERA ISSUED
A STATEMENT
CONFIRMING THAT IN THE MIDDLE OF
THE INSURRECTION, WHEN HOUSE
MINORITY LEADER KEVIN McCARTHY
CALLED THE PRESIDENT TO BEG FOR
HELP, PRESIDENT TRUMP RESPONDED
AND I QUOTE, WELL, KEVIN, I
GUESS THESE PEOPLE ARE MORE
UPSET ABOUT THE ELECTION THEN
YOU ARE. NEEDLESS TO SAY, THIS
IS AN ADDITIONAL CRITICAL PIECE
OF EVIDENCE FURTHER CONFIRMING
THE CHARGES BEFORE YOU AS WELL
AS THE PRESIDENT WILLFUL
DERELICTION OF DUTY AND
DESERTION OF DUTY AS COMMANDER
OF
CHIEF OF THE UNITED STATES, HIS
STATE OF MIND AND HAS FURTHER
INCITEMENT OF THE INSURRECTION
ON JANUARY 6. FOR THAT REASON
AND BECAUSE THIS IS THE PROPER
TIME TO DO SO, UNDER THE
RESOLUTION THE SENATE ADOPTED TO
SET THE RULES FOR THE TRIAL, WE
WOULD LIKE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
SUBPOENA
CONGRESSWOMAN HERRERA REGARDING
HER COMMUNICATIONS WITH HOUSE
MINORITY LEADER KEVIN McCARTHY,
AND TO SUBPOENA HER NOTES THAT
SHE MADE REGARDING WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP TOLD KEVIN
McCARTHY IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
INSURRECTION. WE WOULD BE
PREPARED TO PROCEED BY ZOOM
DEPOSITION OF AN HOUR OR LESS,
JUST AS SOON AS CONGRESSMAN
HERRERA BUTLER IS AVAILABLE TO
PROCEED TO THE NEXT PHASE OF THE
TRIAL INCLUDING THE
INTRODUCTION OF THAT TESTIMONY
SO SHORTLY THEREAFTER,
CONGRESSMAN BUTLER FURTHER
STATED THAT SHE HOPES OTHER
WITNESSES TO THIS PART OF THE
STORY, OTHER PATRIOTS AS SHE PUT
IT, WOULD COME FORWARD AND IF
THAT HAPPENS, WE WOULD SEEK THE
OPPORTUNITY TO TAKE THEIR
DEPOSITIONS VIA ZOOM, ALSO FOR
LESS THAN AN HOUR, OR TO
SUBPOENA OTHER RELEVANT
DOCUMENTS AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; SENATORS, GOOD MORNING, AND
GOOD MORNING TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
THE FIRST THING I WANT TO SAY ON
THE ISSUE OF WITNESSES, IS, THAT
THE HOUSE MANAGER JUST GOT UP
HERE AND DESCRIBED THE ARTICLES
OF IMPEACHMENT AND THE CHARGES,
THERE IS NO PLURAL HERE, THAT'S
WRONG. THERE'S ONE ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT AND THERE'S ONE
CHARGE AND THAT HIS INCITEMENT
OF VIOLENCE AND INSURRECTION
. WHAT YOU ALL NEED TO KNOW AND
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE NEED TO KNOW
IS AS OF LATE YESTERDAY
AFTERNOON, THERE WAS A
STIPULATION GOING AROUND THAT
THERE WEREN'T GOING TO BE ANY
WITNESSES. BUT, AFTER WHAT
HAPPENED HERE IN THIS CHAMBER
YESTERDAY, THE HOUSE MANAGERS
REALIZE THEY DID NOT INVESTIGATE
THIS CASE BEFORE BRINGING THE
IMPEACHMENT
, THEY DID NOT GIVE THE PROPER
CONSIDERATION AND THE WORK, THEY
DIDN'T PUT THE WORK IN THAT WAS
NECESSARY TO IMPEACH THE FORMER
PRESIDENT
. BUT, IF THEY WANT TO HAVE
WITNESSES, I'M GOING TO NEED AT
LEAST OVER 100 DEPOSITIONS, NOT
JUST ONE. THE REAL ISSUE IS
INCITEMENT. THEY PUT INTO THEIR
CASE OVER 100 WITNESSES, PEOPLE,
WHO HAVE BEEN CHARGED WITH
CRIMES BY THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
AND EACH ONE OF THOSE, THEY SAID
THAT MR. TRUMP WAS A
CO-CONSPIRATOR WITH. THAT'S NOT
TRUE. BUT I HAVE THE RIGHT TO
DEFEND THAT.
THE ONLY THING THAT I ASK, IS IF
YOU VOTE FOR WITNESSES, DO NOT
HANDCUFF ME BY LIMITING THE
NUMBER OF WITNESSES THAT I CAN
HAVE. I NEED TO DO A THOROUGH
INVESTIGATION THAT THEY DID NOT
DO.
I NEED TO DO THE 91 ONCE TAL
INVESTIGATION THAT NANCY PELOSI
CALLED FOR.
IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN DONE
ALREADY. IT'S A DERELICTION OF
THE HOUSE MANAGERS DUTY.
AND NOW, AT THE LAST MINUTE
AFTER A STIPULATION HAD
APPARENTLY BEEN WORKED OUT, THEY
WANT TO GO BACK ON THAT. I THINK
THAT'S INAPPROPRIATE AND
IMPROPER. WE SHOULD CLOSE THIS
CASE OUT TODAY. WE HAVE EACH
PREPARED OUR CLOSING ARGUMENTS,
I HAD EIGHT DAYS TO GET READY
FOR THIS THING, BUT WE EACH HAD
THOSE EIGHT DAYS EQUALLY TO
PREPARE OURSELVES, AND THE HOUSE
MANAGERS NEED TO LIVE WITH THE
CASE THAT THEY BROUGHT. BUT IF
THEY DON'T, PLEASE, AND ALL
FAIRNESS, AND IN ALL DUE PROCESS
, DO NOT
LIMIT MY ABILITY TO DISCOVER,
DISCOVER, DISCOVER THE TRUTH.
THAT WOULD BE ANOTHER SHAM
. AND THAT IS THE PRESIDENT'S
POSITION, MY POSITION.
&gt;&gt; MR. RASKIN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR. PRESIDENT.
FIRST OF ALL, THIS IS THE PROPER
TIME THAT WE WERE ASSIGNED TO
TALK ABOUT WITNESSES, THIS IS
COMPLETELY WITHIN THE COURSE OF
THE RULE SET FORTH BY THE
SENATE, THERE'S NOTHING REMOTELY
UNUSUAL ABOUT THIS. I THINK
WE'VE DONE A COMPREHENSIVE JOB
WITH ALL OF THE
EVIDENCE THAT WAS AVAILABLE.
LAST NIGHT, THIS WAS BREAKING
NEWS AND IT RESPONDED DIRECTLY
TO A QUESTION THAT WAS BEING
RAISED BY THE PRESIDENTS DEFENSE
COUNSEL SAYING, WE HAD NOT
SUFFICIENTLY PROVEN TO THEIR
SATISFACTION ALTHOUGH I THINK
WE'VE
PROVEN IT TO THE SATISFACTION OF
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE, CERTAINLY,
THAT THE PRESIDENT, AFTER THE
BREACH AND INVASION TOOK PLACE,
WAS NOT WORKING ON DEFENDING THE
SIDE OF THE CAPITOL BUT RATHER
WAS CONTINUING TO PURSUE HIS
POLITICAL GOALS, AND THE
INFORMATION THAT CAME OUT LAST
NIGHT BUT  CONGRESS WOMAN
BUTLER, BACKED UP BY
CONTEMPORANEOUS NOTES, THAT SHE
HAD TAKEN, I THINK WILL PUT TO
REST ANY LINGERING DOUBTS RAISED
BY THE PRESIDENTS COUNCIL WHO
NOW SAYS HE WANTS TO INTERVIEW
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE, THERE'S ONLY
ONE PERSON THE PRESIDENTS
COUNCIL REALLY NEEDS TO
INTERVIEW AND THAT IS THEIR OWN
CLIENT. AND BRING HIM FORWARD AS
WE SUGGESTED LAST WEEK BECAUSE A
LOT OF THIS ARE MATTERS THAT ARE
IN HIS HEAD, WHY DID HE NOT ACT
TO DEFEND THE COUNTRY, AFTER HE
WENT
OF THE ATTACK. WHY WAS HE
PRESSING THE POLITICAL CASE?
THIS PIECE OF EVIDENCE IS
RELEVANT TO THAT. AND FINALLY,
I WAS A LITTLE BIT MYSTIFIED BY
THE POINT ABOUT THE ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT, WHICH I REFERRED
TO, THE
DERELICTION OF DUTY, AND
DESERTION OF DUTY IS BUILT INTO
THE INCITEMENT
CHARGE, OBVIOUSLY. THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES IS OUT
INCITING A VIOLENT INSURRECTION,
HE'S OBVIOUSLY NOT DOING HIS JOB
AT THE SAME TIME, JUST TO GET A
POLICE OFFICER IS MUGGING YOU,
YEAH, HE IS GUILTY OF THEFT AND
ARMED ROBBERY, WHATEVER IT MIGHT
BE BUT HE'S ALSO NOT DOING HIS
JOB AS A POLICE OFFICER, SO IT'S
FURTHER EVIDENCE OF HIS INTENT
AND WHAT HIS CONDUCT IS.
&gt;&gt; IF I MAY. FIRST OF ALL IT'S
MY UNDERSTANDING, IT'S BEEN
REPORTED THAT MR. McCARTHY
DISCLAIMS THE RUMORS THAT HAVE
BEEN THE BASIS
OF THIS MORNING'S ANTICS BUT
REALLY, THE RUMORS THAT HAVE
BEEN THE BASIS OF THIS ENTIRE
PROCEEDING. THIS ENTIRE
PROCEEDINGS IS
BASED ON RUMORED REPORT,
INNUENDO. THERE'S NOTHING TO IT
AND THEY DIDN'T DO THEIR WORK.
JUST LIKE WHAT HAPPENED WITH MR.
LEE, TWO OR THREE NIGHTS AGO.
OF SOME SUPPOSED CONVERSATION
THAT HAPPENED, AND THEY HAD TO
WITHDRAW THAT, THEY HAD TO BACK
OFF OF THAT BECAUSE IT WAS
FALSE, IT WAS A FALSE NARRATIVE.
BUT IT IS ONE ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT, YEAH, THEY THREW A
LOT OF STUFF IN IT, IN VIOLATION
OF RULE 23. RULE 23 SAYS YOU
CANNOT COMBINE
COUNTS, IT'S A DEFECT IN THEIR
ENTIRE CASE, IT'S ONE OF THE
FOUR REASONS WHY YOU CAN DEVOTE
TO ACQUIT IN THIS CASE.
JURISDICTION, RULE 23, DUE
PROCESS, THE FIRST AMENDMENT,
THEY ALL APPLY IN THIS CASE.
LET ME, LET ME, LET ME TAKE MY
OWN ADVICE AND COOL THE
TEMPERATURE IN THE ROOM A LITTLE
BIT.
IT'S ABOUT THE INCITEMENT, IT'S
NOT ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS
AFTERWARDS, THAT IS THE
IRRELEVANT STUFF, THAT'S THE
IRRELEVANT STUFF,
IT'S NOT THE THINGS THAT WERE
SAID FROM THE ELECTION TO
JANUARY 6, IT'S NOT RELEVANT TO
THE LEGAL ANALYSIS.
THE ISSUES THAT ARE BEFORE THIS
BODY. IT DOESN'T MATTER WHAT
HAPPENED AFTER THE
INSURGENTS INTO THE CAPITOL
BUILDING, BECAUSE THAT DOESN'T
HAVE TO DO WITH INCITEMENT .
INCITEMENT, IT'S A POINT IN
TIME, FOLKS. IT'S A POINT IN
TIME, WHEN THE WORDS ARE SPOKEN
AND THE WORDS SAY, IMPLICITLY
SAY, EXPLICITLY SAY
, COMMIT ACTS OF VIOLENCE OR
LAWLESSNESS. AND WE DON'T HAVE
THAT HERE. SO. FOR THE HOUSE
MANAGERS TO SAVE WE MEET
TO HAVE POSITIONS ABOUT THE
THINGS THAT HAPPENED AFTER,
THAT'S THAT'S JUST NOT TRUE.
BUT,
THAT, IF HE DOES, THERE ARE A
LOT OF DEPOSITIONS THAT NEED TO
BE HAPPENING, NANCY PELOSI'S
DEPOSITION NEEDS TO BE TAKEN,
VICE PRESIDENT HARASSES
DEPOSITION, ABSOLUTELY NEEDS TO
BE TAKEN, AND NOT BY ZOOM. NONE
OF THESE DEPOSITIONS SHOULD BE
DONE BY ZOOM. WE DIDN'T DO THIS
HEARING BY ZOOM
. THESE DEPOSITIONS SHOULD BE
DONE IN PERSON, IN MY OFFICE, IN
PHILADELPHIA
.
I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY CIVIL
LAWYERS ARE HERE BUT THAT'S THE
WAY IT WORKS, FOLKS. WHEN YOU
WANT SOMEBODY'S DEPOSITION, YOU
SEND A NOTICE OF DEPOSITION, AND
THEY APPEAR AT THE PLACE WHERE
THE NOTICE SAYS, THAT CIVIL
PROCESS! I DON'T KNOW WHY YOU
ARE LAUGHING. IT IS CIVIL
PROCESS, THAT'S THE WAY LAWYERS
DO IT. WE SEND NOTICES OF
DEPOSITION --
&gt;&gt; I WOULD REMIND EVERYBODY THAT
WE WILL HAVE ORDER IN
CHAMBER
DURING THESE PROCEEDINGS.
&gt;&gt; I HAVEN'T LAUGHED AT ANY OF
YOU, AND THERE'S NOTHING
LAUGHABLE HERE.
HE MENTIONED MY CLIENT COMING IN
TO TESTIFY. THAT IS NOT THE WAY
IT'S DONE. IF HE WANTED TO TALK
TO DONALD TRUMP, YOU SHOULD'VE
PUT A SUBPOENA DOWN, LIKE I'M
GOING TO SLAP SUBPOENAS ON A
GOOD NUMBER OF PEOPLE IF
WITNESSES ARE WHAT IS REQUIRED
FOR THEM TO TRY TO GET THEIR
CASE BACK IN ORDER. WHICH HAS
FAILED MISERABLY, FOR FOUR
REASONS. THERE IS NO
JURISDICTION HERE, THERE HAS
BEEN NO DUE PROCESS HERE, THEY
HAVE COMPLETELY VIOLATED AND
IGNORED AND STEP ON
THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED
STATES. THEY HAVE TRAMPLED ON
IT, LIKE PEOPLE WHO HAVE NO
RESPECT FOR IT. AND IF THIS IS
ABOUT NOTHING ELSE, IT HAS TO BE
ABOUT THE RESPECT OF OUR
COUNTRY, OUR CONSTITUTION AND
ALL OF THE PEOPLE THAT MAKE IT
UP
. SO I ASK, WHEN CONSIDERING
VOTING ON THIS
WITNESS MATTER, AND TO BE CLEAR,
THIS MAY BE THE TIME TO DO IT,
BUT AGAIN, AND EVERYBODY NEEDS
TO KNOW, THE BACKROOM POLITICS
I'M NOT TOO ADEPT AT IT, NEITHER
. BUT THERE WAS A STIPULATION,
THEY FELT VERY COMFORTABLE AFTER
DAY TO
, UNTIL THEIR CASE WAS TESTED ON
DAY THREE
. NOW IS THE TIME TO END THIS.
NOW IS THE TIME TO HEAR THE
CLOSING ARGUMENTS. NOW IS THE
TIME TO VOTE YOUR CONSCIENCE.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; MR. RASKIN?
&gt;&gt; Reporter: WE WERE INVOLVED IN
NO DISCUSSIONS ABOUT THE
STIPULATION. AND I HAVE NO
FURTHER COMMENT.
&gt;&gt;
I WOULD REMIND, I WOULD REMIND
EVERYBODY
AS CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS NOTED
ON JANUARY 21, 2020,
CITING THE TRIAL OF CHARLES
SWAIN IN 1905, ALL PARTIES OF
THIS CHAMBER MUST REFRAIN FROM
USING LANGUAGE THAT IS NOT
CONDUCIVE TO CIVIL DISCOURSE.
I LISTENED TO CHIEF JUSTICE
ROBERTS SAY THAT, I AGREED WITH
HIM, AND I THOUGHT FOR OUR
COLLEAGUES, I WOULD REPEAT IT,
AS I DID LAST NIGHT.
SO THE QUESTION WE HAVE BEFORE
US IS WHETHER WE SHOULD BE
, AND THE RULES OF IMPEACHMENT,
AND EMOTION TO SUBPOENA
WITNESSES OR DOCUMENTS.
IS THERE A SUFFICIENT SECOND, IT
APPEARS THERE IS. THE CLERK WILL
CALL THE ROLE.
[ ROLL CALL ]
SENATORS VOTING IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE,
SENATORS VOTING IN THE NEGATIVE.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT?
&gt;&gt; Reporter: I WOULD LIKE TO
CHANGE MY VOTE
TO AYE.
&gt;&gt; MR. GRAHAM, MR. GRAHAM, AYE.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT
? HE MET MR. SULLIVAN?
&gt;&gt; JUST A POINT OF INQUIRY, THE
CONFUSION HERE WAS THAT A VOTE
ON ONE WITNESS OR MANY WITNESSES
THAT MEGA DEBATE IS NOT ALLOWED,
THE SENATOR FROM ALASKA.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT IT'S UP
POINT OF INQUIRY AS TO WHAT WE
JUST VOTED ON.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD ADVISE THAT IS NOT
ALLOWED DURING THE VOTE.
THE POINTS OF ORDER AND DEBATE
ARE NOT ALLOWED DURING THE VOTE,
THAT IS ESTABLISHED SENATE
PROCEDURE AND WE ALWAYS FOLLOW
IT.
ON THE QUESTION OF WHETHER IT
SHALL BE AN ORDER TO CONSIDER
DEBATE UNDER THE RULES OF
IMPEACHMENT, ANY MOTION TO
SUBMIT SUBPOENA WITNESSES OR
DOCUMENT, THAT MOTION IS AGREED
TO BY A VOTE OF
55 TO 45. MAJORITY LEADER?
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, I SUGGEST THE
ABSENCE OF A QUORUM.
&gt;&gt; CLERK WILL CALL THE ROLE.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATE HAS VOTED THAT
THEY CAN CALL WITNESSES, THIS IS
LIVE COVERAGE FROM THE
WASHINGTON POST, WE WILL STAY
GLUED TO THE SENATE FLOOR HERE
AND WATCH WHAT HAPPENS. A
SURPRISE THIS MORNING, THAT THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ASKED
TO CALL A WITNESS, CONGRESSWOMAN
HERRERA BEUTLER, WHO HAS GONE ON
THE RECORD SAYING THAT SHE WAS
TOLD ABOUT A CONVERSATION  THAT
HOUSE MINORITY LEADER
KEVIN McCARTHY HAD WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP ON THE DAY THE
RIOT TOOK PLACE. NOW, WE'VE
HEARD THE COUNTER ARGUMENT BY
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
LAWYERS, AT FIRST SAYING, I'M
GOING TO HAVE TO SUBPOENA 100
WITNESSES BUT THEN SAYING THAT
HE WANTED TO MOVE FORWARD, SO
THAT WAS THE THREAT THAT HE LAID
ON THE TABLE WHILE ALSO
ASSERTING THAT THEY'VE HEARD
ENOUGH, THEY HAD SEEN ENOUGH
FROM THE EVIDENCE AND THEY WERE
READY TO MOVE FORWARD, BUT THEN,
THE ATTORNEY SAYING THAT HE
WANTED NOT ONLY TO HEAR FROM
WITNESSES BY ZOOM, WHICH IS HOW
LEAD IMPEACHMENT MANAGER JAMIE
RASKIN SAID THE REQUEST COULD BE
SATISFIED BUT TRUMP'S LAWYER,
SAID THAT
HE WANTS TO SEE THE WITNESSES IN
PERSON, IN PHILADELPHIA, WHERE
HE PRACTICES LAW.
LET'S GO TO JAMES HOLMAN FOR THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS. THERE WAS
SOME CONFUSION BUT ALASKA
SENATOR DAN SULLIVAN WHO AFTER
THE VOTE SAID, WAIT ARE WE
VOTING ON A SPECIFIC WITNESS OR
ALL WITNESSES AND SENATOR LEAHY
WOULDN'T ENTERTAIN IT BECAUSE IT
WAS BREAKING FROM PROCEDURE.
BUT,
THERE WAS A LITTLE BIT OF
CONFUSION THERE AS TO WHAT
EXACTLY THEY WERE OPENING THE
DOOR FOR, JAMES.
&gt;&gt; THERE WERE OPENING THE DOOR
TO THE DEBATE CALLING WITNESSES,
AND NOTABLY, SO AT THE END,
THERE, FIVE REPUBLICANS ENDED UP
JOINING EVERY SINGLE DEMOCRAT TO
VOTE TO CALL WITNESSES OR
TO OPEN THE DEBATE ABOUT CALLING
THE WITNESSES SO THE SENATE
STILL HAS TO VOTE FOR, TO CALL
EACH WITNESS. THIS NOTE IS AND
TO ALLOW MIKE VAN DER VEEN TO
HARASS 100 PEOPLE BY CALLING IT
BRINGING THEM TO PHILADELPHIA,
THE FIVE VOTES INCLUDE THE USUAL
SUSPECTS, LISA MURKOWSKI, BEN
SASS, MITT ROMNEY, SUSAN
COLLINS, THEN LINDSEY GRAHAM HAS
BEEN ADVISING, GRAHAM, CHANGING
HIS VOTE FROM NO TO YES
, HE IS SOMEONE WHO HAS BEEN
SAYING PUBLICLY FOR DAYS, THAT
IF THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE
WITNESSES, HE WANTS THEM TO CALL
A BUNCH OF PEOPLE LIKE KAMALA
HARRIS TO MUDDY THINGS UP AND
POTENTIALLY TO GUM UP THE BIDEN
AGENDA
. THIS IS A SURPRISE
DEVELOPMENT, IT'S A SIGNIFICANT
DEVELOPMENT. IT ALMOST CERTAINLY
MEANS THAT THE TRIAL WILL NOT
CONCLUDE TODAY, AND THAT IS
NOTEWORTHY BECAUSE
BOTH SIDES WERE EXPECTING TO
GIVE CLOSING ARGUMENTS, AND YOU
KNOW, YOU HAVE SOMEONE LIKE
MITCH McCONNELL SENDING OUT A
STATEMENT SAYING I'M PLANNING TO
VOTE AGAINST CONVENTION
CONVICTION LATER TODAY, THEY'RE
NOT ABLE TO DO A ZOOM DEPOSITION
OF THE CONGRESSWOMAN FROM
WASHINGTON STATE, YOU KNOW,
RIGHT AWAY, SO THIS IS A BIG
DEVELOPMENT THAT I THINK DOES
KIND OF REFLECT
YOU KNOW, THIS IS A TRIAL AND
TRIALS CAN HAVE SURPRISING
DEVELOPMENTS. THE OTHER THING I
THINK THAT WAS SIGNIFICANT FROM
MICHAEL VAN DER VEEN, HE CLAIMED
DURING THE BIZARRE SPECTACLE
THAT ANYTHING THAT HAPPENED
AFTER THE MOB
REACHED THE CAPITOL WAS
IRRELEVANT, THAT WAS THE WORD HE
USED, IRRELEVANT, THAT IS
REMARKABLE BECAUSE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS HAVE
ARGUED IT'S IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND TRUMP'S STATE OF
MIND, HOW HE RESPONDED ONCE THE
CAPITOL WAS BREACHED, AND IN
FACT,  THAT WAS A CENTRAL FOCUS
OF A BUNCH OF THE REPUBLICAN
SENATORS WHO WERE ON THE FENCE
YESTERDAY INCLUDING COLLINS AND
MURKOWSKI, AND TRUMP'S LAWYER
NOW SAYING HOW TRUMP RESPONDED
TO THE MOB, TOTALLY IRRELEVANT
AND FRANKLY, THAT IS A TACIT
ADMISSION THAT THE FACTS ARE BAD
FOR TRUMP WHEN IT COMES TO THE
FACT THAT HE DID NOT CARE ABOUT
WHAT WAS HAPPENING TO
REPUBLICANS AND IF ANYTHING HE
WAS ENJOYING IT AND WATCHING IT
ON TELEVISION AS IT PLAYED OUT.
&gt;&gt; THE QUORUM, THE SENATE HAS TO
HAVE A RESOLUTION TO DETERMINE
THE WITNESSES. SO AS JAMES
POINTS OUT, THIS IS OPENING THE
DOOR TO IT BUT THIS IS NOT
DECISIVE ABOUT WHAT WITNESSES
WOULD BE CALLED. RHONDA COLEMAN,
YOU KNOW, YOU WARNED US THAT
NOTHING IS PREDICTABLE OR
DETERMINED AHEAD OF TIME
IN CONGRESS, IN A TRIAL, AND IN
A CASE LIKE THIS, SO RHONDA,
WHAT IS THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS CALLING TO
HEAR FROM CONGRESSWOMAN HERRERA
BEUTLER
?
&gt;&gt; I SAID THAT THIS MORNING,
THAT YOU CAN NEVER SAY ANYTHING
IS OFF THE TABLE HERE ON THE
HILL AND THIS IS PROOF OF IT.
IT'S ALSO PROOF THAT THAT AREA
OF THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS ARGUMENT, THAT THEY
WANTED TO FIND OUT WHAT TRUMP
KNEW AND WHEN HE KNEW IT, IS
PRETTY SIGNIFICANT, AND IS
WEIGHING ON THE MINDS OF THESE
SENATORS WHO ARE ON THE FENCE,
AND WONDERING ABOUT THAT PART OF
THE WHOLE TIMELINE. AND WE DID
HEAR FROM
VAN DER VEEN, HE ALSO MADE THE
ARGUMENT YESTERDAY THAT THIS IS
A CHARGE OF INCITEMENT, IT
DOESN'T MATTER WHAT TRUMP WAS
DOING AFTER THE RIOT OR WHILE
THE RIGHT WAS GOING ON, THE
CHARGES INCITEMENT, AND WE SAW
HIM SAY THAT TODAY, HE WAS
GESTICULATING, AND IT FELT LIKE
A MADE-FOR-TV MOMENT THERE, AND
IT APPEARS NOW THAT THEY WILL BE
ABLE TO SUBPOENA WITNESSES, SO
WE WILL KEEP AN EYE OUT ON ANY
OTHERS, OTHER THAN
REPRESENTATIVE BEUTLER  HAS
NAMED BY RASKIN AS SOMEBODY WHO
KNOWS MORE ABOUT
THE DETAILS ABOUT THE CALL WITH
KEVIN McCARTHY AND TRUMP WHILE
THE RIGHT WAS GOING ON. AND HER
STATEMENT MIGHT BE SIGNIFICANT
IF THEY ARE ABLE TO GET IT. IT'S
ALSO IMPORTANT TO POINT OUT THAT
THIS VOTE IS TO SUBPOENA
WITNESSES, SO THIS IS NOT AN
INVITE, THIS WOULD BE A
CONGRESSIONAL SUBPOENA THAT
WOULD COMPEL ANYONE ON THE LIST
TO COME HERE OR DO IT VIA ZOOM.
AND I ALSO WANT TO POINT OUT,
TOO, THAT MUCH OF THE CONGRESSES
WORK RIGHT NOW, AND HEARINGS,
HAVE BEEN ZOOM-BASED. I KNOW THE
TRUMP LAWYER SAID THAT HE WANTS
TO SEE THEM IN HIS OFFICE,
IN PHILADELPHIA, BUT THE WORK ON
THE HILL, BECAUSE OF THE
PANDEMIC THAT WE ARE STILL
EXPERIENCING, A LOT OF IT HAS
BEEN DONE OVER ZOOM, SO, THAT IS
WHY RASKIN BROUGHT THAT PART UP
TO BE DONE VIA ZOOM. SO WE WILL
SEE WHAT COMES NEXT. THE GRAHAM
VOTE WAS A LITTLE BIT OF A
SURPRISE BECAUSE HE HAS ONCE
SAID THAT HE DIDN'T THINK
WITNESSES, ESPECIALLY THE
RIOTERS SHOULD
ALLOWED IN, THAT WOULD CREATE A
CIRCUS ENVIRONMENT, BUT TO SEE
HIM ADD HIS NAME TO THE LIST,
THAT IS INTERESTING, AND IT'S
SOMETHING I THINK WE WILL
DISSECT A LITTLE LATER AS WE
HEAR FROM HIM, AND PERHAPS HERE
WHY HE MADE THAT DECISION. IT
COULD BE POLITICALLY BASED, HE
MAY WANT TO BRING AN KAMALA
HARRIS, ONE OF THE DEFENSE
LAWYER SAID, THEY WOULD LIKE TO
SEE HER, THEY WOULD LIKE TO SEE
NANCY PELOSI AND OF COURSE, THAT
WOULD CREATE MORE OF A PARTISAN
ARGUMENT FOR THEM. BUT OF COURSE
THE PIECE OF MANAGERS ARE
PROBABLY GOING TO SAY THOSE ARE
GERMANE WITNESSES
, AND WHAT THEY WANT TO DO WITH
THIS WITNESS TIME, IS TO SEE
WHAT PEOPLE KNOW ABOUT THOSE
CALLS,
THAT REPUBLICANS HAD OUT TO
TRUMP, TO REALLY ESTABLISH WHAT
HIS THINKING WAS, DURING THE
INSURRECTION, AND YOU CAN JUST
TELL THAT THAT PART OF THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARGUMENT,
ALL THIS WEEK, WAS REALLY
SUCCESSFUL.
&gt;&gt; JAMES HALLMAN, WHY SUBPOENA
CONGRESSWOMAN HERRERA BEUTLER,
AND LET'S JUST REMIND OUR
VIEWERS AND TAKE THEM THROUGH
WHAT EXACT  SHE SAYS THAT SHE
KNEW BECAUSE SHE SHARED A
STATEMENT ON SOCIAL MEDIA LAST
NIGHT THAT IT WAS JUST REPEATING
COMMENTS THAT SHE HAS MADE
REPEATEDLY OVER THE LAST MONTH.
WHAT DOES SHE SAY THAT SHE
KNOWS?
&gt;&gt; SHE SAYS THAT SHE HAS
FIRSTHAND KNOWLEDGE OF A PHONE
CONVERSATION THAT KEVIN McCARTHY
,  THE REPUBLICAN LEADER IN THE
HOUSE, HAD WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP
WHILE THE CAPITOL WAS UNDER
SIEGE . WHILE IT WAS BEING
BREACHED, WHILE MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS'S LIVES WERE IN
JEOPARDY. AND
SHE KNOWS THAT McCARTHY ASKED
TRUMP TO SEND HELP AND TRUMP
RESPONDED TO McCARTHY, I GUESS
THESE PEOPLE CARE MORE ABOUT
STOPPING THE ELECTION FROM BEING
COUNTED THEN YOU DO, KEVIN. AND
McCARTHY, USING PROFANITY TO
RESPOND
AND EXPRESS ANGER AT THE
PRESIDENT, INDEED McCARTHY WOULD
LATER, DURING THE IMPEACHMENT
PROCEEDINGS IN THE HOUSE SAY
THAT HE SUPPORTED A CENSURE
RESOLUTION FOR TRUMP, THEN HE
TRIED TO MAKE NICE, FLEW TO
MAR-A-LAGO AND POSTED THE
PICTURE WITH TRUMP GIVING THUMBS
UP, BUT HERRERA BEUTLER WAS
THERE THAT DAY, SHE'S ONE OF THE
10 REPUBLICANS WHO VOTED FOR
IMPEACHMENT
AND SHE, AS A REPUBLICAN MEMBER
OF CONGRESS COULD TESTIFY TO
TRUMP'S STATE OF MIND, DURING
THAT TERRIFYING TIME
WHEN THE NATIONAL GUARD WASN'T
COMING, HELP WASN'T COMING, AND
STAFFERS WERE BARRICADING
THEMSELVES IN ROOMS, SO SHE CAN
SPEAK VERY MUCH TO THE FACT THAT
TRUMP, IN SOME WAYS WAS
RELISHING WHAT WAS HAPPENING,
WHICH DOES SHOW THAT THIS IS
SOMETHING HE WAS FINE WITH, AND
MAYBE EVEN WANTED. BUT IT'S
NOTABLE BECAUSE IT IS A
REPUBLICAN, THIS IS NOT SOME
DEMOCRAT, THIS IS NOT, AND IT'S
ALSO, SHE'S SOMEONE WHO DOESN'T
HAVE EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE. SHE
CAN'T SAY THAT SHE'S NOT GOING
TO TESTIFY ABOUT YOU KNOW, WHAT
TRUMP WAS SAYING PRIVATELY TO
HIS ADVISORS
--
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO PAUSE YOU THERE.
THAT'S AN IMPORTANT POINT. ONE
MIGHT SAY, HERRERA BEUTLER,
MIGHT TESTIFY AS TO WHAT KEVIN
McCARTHY TOLD HER  DONALD TRUMP
SAID TO HIM, RIGHT, SO WHY NOT
JUST SUBPOENA SOMEONE IN
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
ORBIT WAS AT THE WHITE HOUSE
STANDING RIGHT NEXT TO HIM, WHY
NOT SUBPOENA KEVIN McCARTHY?
&gt;&gt; KEVIN McCARTHY WOULD BE A
HOSTILE WITNESS, HE SOMEONE WHO,
HE WANTS TO BE SPEAKER OF THE
HOUSE IN 2023, AND HE HAS FIRMLY
TIED HIMSELF TO TRUMP.  AND HE'S
NOT GOING TO PLAY BALL, BUT IT
DOES SEEM THAT HERRERA BEUTLER
WILL  THE STATEMENT INDICATES
THAT SHE WILL. FRANKLY, WE DON'T
KNOW WHAT KIND OF CONVERSATIONS
MAY OR MAY NOT HAVE HAPPENED
BETWEEN
YOU KNOW SOMEONE LIKE JAMIE
RASKIN OR ONE OF THE OTHER
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, THEY CAN
CALL HER A BEUTLER AND SAY,
WOULD YOU BE WILLING TO APPEAR,
AND SHE MAY OR MAY NOT HAVE SAID
YES. SO IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THE
IDEA THAT DEMOCRATS, OF WANTING
THEM TO CALL HER, SUGGEST THAT
THIS WOULD BE A VERY SHORT
DETOUR, RASKIN WOULDN'T HAVE
PULLED THE SURPRISE MOVE, IF HE
THOUGHT THAT SHE WAS GOING TO
RESIST COMPLIANCE, YOU KNOW, AND
THIS WOULD DRAG IT OUT ANOTHER
WEEK. HE WOULD ONLY DO THIS IF
HE THOUGHT IT WOULD BE A QUICK
WAY TO ESTABLISH EVIDENCE FOR
THE RECORD, THAT TRUMP WAS
TOTALLY CALLOUS WHEN THE MOB WAS
IN THE CAPITOL.
&gt;&gt; SO JAMES, THIS IS WHAT
CONGRESSWOMAN HERRERA BEUTLER
SAID LAST NIGHT ON SOCIAL MEDIA.
SHE SAID IN MY JANUARY 12
STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF THE
ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT, A
REMINDER, THAT SHE VOTED TO
IMPEACH PRESIDENT TRUMP. I
REFERENCED A CONVERSATION HOUSE
MINORITY LEADER KEVIN McCARTHY
RELAYED TO ME THAT HE HAD HAD
WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP WHILE THE
ATTACK WAS ONGOING. SHE THEN
LAYS OUT THE DETAILS. AND THEN,
SHE SAYS, THAT SHE HAS YOU KNOW,
SHARE THIS WITH THOUSANDS OF
RESIDENTS ON A TELEPHONE TOWN
HALL, SHE TOLD HER
EXECUTIVE BOARD MEMBERS, SHE
TOLD THE LOCAL NEWSPAPER, AND
SHE ENDS WITH THIS, JAMES, TO
THE PATRIOTS WHO ARE STANDING
NEXT TO THE FORMER PRESIDENT,
AND THESE CONVERSATIONS WERE
HAPPENING, OR EVEN TO THE FORMER
VICE PRESIDENT, IF YOU HAVE
SOMETHING TO ADD HERE, NOW WOULD
BE THE TIME. SO WHY NOT JUST TRY
AND ADMIT THIS STATEMENT, WHY
CAN'T LEAD
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER RASKIN
REFERENCED THE STATEMENT AND
READ THIS INTO THE RECORD, WHY
YOU'RE FROM
HERSELF?
&gt;&gt; THE MANAGERS KNOW THAT THIS
IS SOMETHING THAT ON THE FENCE
PUBLICANS CARE ABOUT DEEPLY, AND
THEY KNOW IT IS A POINT OF
DISCOMFORT FOR OTHER REPUBLICANS
WHO ARE INCREDIBLY UNEASY WITH
WHAT TRUMP
DID THAT DAY WHO ARE NOT TROMPE
L'OEIL IS, SO THIS IS A LEGAL
STRATEGY. IT ALSO COMES ON THE
HEELS, THERE WAS A LOT OF
FRUSTRATION AMONG REPUBLICANS
THAT THE TRUMP DEFENSE TEAM
WOULDN'T GIVE ANYTHING WHEN IT
CAME TO QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
TIMELINE, ONLY IN SOME WAYS THE
TRUMP DEFENSE TEAM BROUGHT THIS
ON THEMSELVES, BY SAYING, WE
DON'T KNOW WHAT THE TIMELINE IS,
SO
THIS IS JAMIE RASKIN'S WAY OF
SAYING, WELL, HERE'S REPUBLICAN
CONGRESSWOMAN WHO WILL HELP FILL
IN THE TIMELINE FOR US. AND THAT
IS WHEN HE SAW MICHAEL VAN DER
VEEN MAKE THE STERLING CLAIMED
THAT ANYTHING THAT HAPPENED
AFTER THE CAPITOL WAS
BREACHED WAS IRRELEVANT, WHICH
DOES SUGGEST THAT THEY ARE
ACTUALLY QUITE TERRIFIED, AND
THE TONE THAT VAN DER VEEN TOOK
OF, I'M GOING TO MAKE 100 PEOPLE
COME TO PHILADELPHIA, AND WE ARE
GOING TO HAVE DEPOSITIONS IN MY
OFFICE WHICH IS NOT HOW IT WORKS
AT ALL, THAT  KIND OF CAME OFF
AS A THREAT, AND THAT COULD NOT
POSSIBLY HAVE PLAYED WELL WITH
THE COLLINS, MURKOWSKI, ROMNEY
TYPES, AND IT PUTS THE
REPUBLICAN SENATORS WHO WANT TO
VOTE TO ACQUIT, IT PUTS THEM IN
A VERY BAD SPOT. SO PART OF IT
IS, THEATER, PART OF IT IS
STRATEGY, SOME OF IT
IS THAT ACTUALLY HAVING HERRERA
BEUTLER SAY THIS UNDER OATH,
DOES VERY MUCH STRENGTHEN THEIR
ARGUMENT  THAT TRUMP WAS
DERELICT IN HIS DUTY.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA COLDEN, HERE'S WHAT WE
ARE HEARING FROM INSIDE OF THE
SENATE CHAMBER,
THERE WAS A LOT OF CONFUSION
THERE ESPECIALLY IN THE EARLY
AFTERMATH AND WE SAW THAT
OURSELVES, WE HEARD SENATOR
SULLIVAN ASKED WHAT ARE WE
VOTING ON, AFTER THE VOTE HAD
ALREADY TAKEN PLACE, AND TO
REMIND HER VIEWERS WHAT THEY
VOTED ON IS TO SORT OF ENTERTAIN
THE CONVERSATION ABOUT SPECIFIC
WITNESSES, SO HERE'S WHAT KAREN
SHARES WITH US, THAT SENATOR
GRAHAM WAS EXPLAINING THINGS AND
HUDDLED WITH SENATORS INCLUDING
LEE, COTTON, HOGAN, FISHING,
DANES AND YOUNG AND THEY WERE
ALL SURROUNDING EACH OTHER, AND
THE STAFF OF McCONNELL WERE
TALKING TO MURKOWSKI, COLLINS
AND
ROMNEY, AND THE DEMOCRATS WERE
HAVING THEIR OWN HUDDLES ON THE
SITE. SO, MY QUESTION FOR YOU
IS,
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN THEY START
ACTUALLY TALKING ABOUT POTENTIAL
WITNESSES, DO WE AND
ANTICIPATE THAT REPUBLICANS
GETTING ON THE SAME PAGE AND
DEMOCRATS GETTING THEIR OWN
STRATEGY TOGETHER HERE?
&gt;&gt; IT SEEMS LIKE SOME OF THESE
DECISIONS WERE LATEBREAKING, AND
I THINK I REFERENCED TO THAT
EARLIER, IN THE MORNING SHOW,
THAT A LOT OF TALKING MIGHT HAVE
HAPPENED AFTER THEY LEFT
YESTERDAY
, THIS MORNING, SO IT SEEMS LIKE
BOTH REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS
ARE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT THE WAY
FORWARD HERE, AND WHAT TO DO
NEXT. AND THAT'S PRETTY
IMPORTANT, BECAUSE, UTILIZING
WITNESSES COULD MEAN EVERYTHING,
HONESTLY, TO BOTH SIDES. YOU SEE
THERE THAT VAN DER VEEN DOES
LOOK A BIT  CONCERNED NOW THAT
HE'S DOUBLING DOWN ON THAT
ARGUMENT, THE CHARGES ABOUT
EXCITEMENT, NOT ABOUT WHAT HE
WAS DOING DURING THE TIME OF THE
RIDE, IT SEEMS THAT EVERYBODY IS
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHAT IS
NEXT, WHAT WOULD BE THE NEXT WAY
FORWARD BUT I THINK ANY
WITNESSES THAT WOULD HAVE ANY
EFFECT WOULD BE WITNESSES THAT
CAN SPEAK TO THIS POINT IN THE
TIMELINE ABOUT TRUMP AND HIS
MINDSET DURING THE INSURRECTION
BECAUSE YESTERDAY WE HEARD
TRUMP'S TEAM TALK ABOUT HE'S THE
MOST LAW AND ORDER PRESIDENT,
BUT IF HE WAS NOT CALLING IN THE
GARDEN OR BEING A PART OF THOSE
CONVERSATIONS OR WAS IT
CONCERNED ABOUT MIKE PENCE, THEN
THE IMPATIENT MANAGERS CAN USE
THAT TO SHOW THEIR WHOLE POINT,
THAT HE SAID HE'S NOT SUPPORTING
THE RIOTERS YET HE DIDN'T DO
ANYTHING TO STOP THEM, SO HOW
COULD HE HAVE IT BOTH WAYS. I
THINK NOW THAT THEY ARE AT THIS
PART WHERE THEY COULD
FORESEEABLY HAVE SOMETHING
WITNESSES, THEY ARE FIGURING OUT
WHO WOULD BE THE MOST COMPELLING
VOICES AT THIS POINT BECAUSE WE
ARE SEEING THAT APPETITE NOW
FROM THIS GROUP OF SENATORS, WHO
WANT TO HEAR A LITTLE BIT MORE
AND THAT ALSO SHOWS YOU THE Q
AND A THEY WENT THROUGH
YESTERDAY, DIDN'T SEEM TO HAVE
MUCH OF AN EFFECT. THEY DIDN'T
UTILIZE ALL OF THEIR TIME WITH
THE Q&amp;A, YESTERDAY WENT THROUGH
RATHER QUICKLY, WE NOTED
YESTERDAY THAT THE DEFENSE TEAM
ALSO DIDN'T EVEN USE A QUARTER
OF THEIR TIME. THEY JUST CAME TO
ABOUT 2 1/2 HOURS OF AN
ARGUMENT, WHEREAS THE IMPATIENT
MANAGERS BROKERS BETWEEN TWO
DAYS, SO IT SHOWS THAT ENOUGH
HASN'T HAPPENED YET
TO PUT MINDS AT EASE IN THE
GROUP OF SENATORS WHO WANT MORE
ANSWERS.
&gt;&gt; LET'S BRING ERIN BLAKE INTO
THE
CONVERSATION, SENIOR REPORTER
FOR THE FIX. YOU DON'T HAVE A
CRYSTAL BALL BUT YOU ARE A GOOD
JOURNALIST, SO YOU'VE ALREADY
WRITTEN ABOUT WITNESSES, THAT
COULD POTENTIALLY GIVE IMPORTANT
TESTIMONY AT THIS TRIAL. TALK
ABOUT, WHO IS REALLY RELEVANT TO
THIS TRIAL? THE MAC SO I
INITIALLY WROTE ABOUT
POTENTIAL WITNESSES EARLY THIS
WEEK BEFORE THE TRIAL STARTED,
SEEMS LIKE A LONG TIME AGO NOW.
WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE
,
THAT THEY WOULDN'T CALL ANY
WITNESSES, THAT SEEMED TO BE A
QUESTIONABLE DECISION GIVEN THAT
WE DIDN'T SEE ANY IMPEACHMENT IN
THE HOUSE.
AND THAT WE ALSO WOULDN'T SEE
ANY IN THE ACTUAL TRIAL, IT
DOESN'T REALLY SPEAK TO THE IDEA
THAT THE DEMOCRATS PUT FORWARD,
WHICH IS, THIS WAS SO
SIGNIFICANT THAT WE REALLY
NEEDED TO FIND OUT THE TRUTH
HERE AND HAVE ACCOUNTABILITY.
SOME OF THE ONES THAT I
MENTIONED BEFORE, WHERE THE
CAPITOL RIOTERS, WHO HAVE CITED
THE PRESIDENT'S INVITATION,
EITHER WHEN THEY WERE IN THE
BUILDING ON SOME OF THOSE LIVE
STREAMS, OR IN THEIR COURT
CASES, SEVERAL OF THEM, IN THEIR
DEFENSES HAD SAID THEY FELT
LIKE THEY WERE INVITED BY THE
PRESIDENT, THAT MIGHT BE LEGALLY
EXPEDIENT FOR THEM TO TRY AND
SHIFT LAME TOWARDS THE PRESIDENT
RATHER THAN THEMSELVES. SOME
OTHER ONES, WERE THESE WHITE
HOUSE AIDES OR FORMER AIDES,
FORMER TRUMP CAMPAIGN AIDES WHO
WERE INVOLVED IN PLANNING OF THE
JANUARY 6 RALLY, THE SHIFT FOR
THE RALLY CHANGED OVER TIME, THE
IDEA OF A MARCH TOWARD THE
CAPITOL CAME ON LATE, FIGURING
OUT HOW ALL OF THESE THINGS CAME
TOGETHER AND JUST WHAT THE
PLANNING INVOLVED, AND HOW THIS
MIGHT HAVE BEEN FORESEEABLE
WOULD SEEM TO  THE AN IMPORTANT
THING, AND IN THE LAST FEW DAYS,
THE LAST FEW THINGS THAT HAVE
SURFACED, ARE THE ONES THAT
WE'VE HEARD THE MOST ABOUT, WITH
THESE PHONE CALLS THE PRESIDENT
HAD WITH LAWMAKERS EARLY IN THE
ATTEMPTED INSURRECTION,
JAMIE HERRERA BEUTLER, WHO IS
BASICALLY STEPPING FORWARD,
PUTTING ON A PRESS RELEASE
SAYING THAT PEOPLE SHOULD BE
HONEST ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED  THE
COLLEGE TO TALK ABOUT THESE
THINGS. SHE COULD SPEAK TO THIS
IDEA THAT THE PRESIDENT WAS AT
THE VERY LEAST INDIFFERENT TO
WHAT WAS TAKING PLACE AT THE
CAPITOL. AND THEN THE OTHER ONE
IS SENATOR  TOMMY TURBERVILLE
, THIS IS THE OTHER CALL THAT WE
KNOW THAT THE PRESIDENT HAD
EARLY ON WHEN THEY CALLED MIKE
LEE SEEKING TO TALK TO TOMMY
TURBERVILLE AND WE KNOW THAT HE
AND TUPPER BILL TALKED ABOUT
OVERTURNING THE ELECTION BEFORE
TURBERVILLE ENDED THE CALL BY
TELLING THE PRESIDENT THAT
, EVEN AS THESE LAWMAKERS WERE
IN SIGNIFICANT DANGER. IT ALSO
SPEAKS TO THE IDEA THAT
POTENTIALLY, THE PRESIDENT MIGHT
HAVE KNOWN ABOUT THE SITUATION
WITH MIKE PENCE AROUND THE TIME
OF HIS TWEET. THE SENATOR LEE
NOW SAYS THE CALL ACTUALLY CAME
AFTER THE TWEET ATTACKING VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE, SO THESE ARE
SOME OF THE SIGNIFICANT
WITNESSES, WE ARE NOT GOING TO
SEE ALL OF THEM I WOULD GUESS
BECAUSE DEMOCRATS WANT TO KEEP
THIS SOMEWHAT EXPEDIENT, BUT
CERTAINLY THESE ARE ONES THAT
WOULD SEEM TO ANSWER SOME OF THE
BIG QUESTIONS THAT STILL REMAIN
IN THIS TRIAL.
&gt;&gt; I WILL KICK THIS QUESTION TO
YOU, WHY SUBPOENA CONGRESSWOMAN
HERRERA BEUTLER AND NOT  THE
PERSON WHO ACTUALLY HAVE THE
PHONE CALL, SHE SAID SHE WAS
TOLD ABOUT, KEVIN McCARTHY.
&gt;&gt; I THINK WHAT CONGRESSMAN
BEUTLER PROVIDES A SOMEBODY WHO
SEEMS TO BE MOTIVATED TO TALK ,
SUBPOENAING A LOWER RANKING
HOUSE MEMBER IS NOT A SEVERE A
STEP AS
THE HOUSE MINORITY LEADER, THAT
WOULD RATCHET THINGS UP AND
PROBABLY LAND CREDENCE TO THE
TRUMP TEAMS THREATS TO CALL
PEOPLE LIKE NANCY PELOSI, AND
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS WHO
MICHAEL VAN DER VEEN TALKED
ABOUT JUST A SHORT WHILE AGO. I
ALSO THINK  THAT HERRERA BEUTLER
, SORRY, I CAN'T SAY HER NAME
CORRECTLY, SHE PROVIDES MORE OF
AN ENTRE INTO WHO ELSE COULD
SPEAK TO THIS. SHE HAS
REFERENCED THE IDEA THAT OTHER,
PATRIOTS, AND THE HOUSE SHOULD
BE WILLING TO SPEAK UP. MAYBE
SHE WILL PROVIDE SOME
POINTERS ABOUT WHERE THEY SHOULD
GO NEXT, ARE THERE OTHER
LAWMAKERS WHO COULD ATTEST TO
THE DETAILS OF THAT PHONE CALL
WITH KEVIN McCARTHY, SO I VIEW
THIS MORE AS THEM PICKING OUT
THE MOST LOGICAL FIRST STEP
IN WITNESSES, DOESN'T THAT THEY
WILL CALL A WHOLE BUNCH OF
WITNESSES AFTER THAT BUT
CERTAINLY, THE FACT THAT SHE HAS
MOTIVATION, AND HAS COME
FORWARD, IN A WAY, TO TALK ABOUT
THESE THINGS, SUGGESTS THAT THIS
WOULD BE A WITNESS THAT WOULD
PROVIDE THEM A LITTLE BIT OF THE
INITIAL YOU KNOW, ENTRY INTO
WHAT THEY ARE TRYING TO GET AT
HERE.
&gt;&gt; AARON, I WANT TO GET A SENSE
FROM YOU ABOUT
HOW SPRAWLING AND FAR-REACHING
THIS COULD GO. AS YOU POINT OUT,
THE IMPATIENT MANAGERS, JUST
FOCUSING ON ONE CONGRESSWOMAN,
DOES SORT OF LIMIT THE WAY THAT
THIS COULD EASILY SORT OF GROW
AND EXPAND AND MULTIPLY, BUT WE
DID JUST HEAR
VAN DER VEEN SAY THAT HE WOULD
LIKE TO SUBPOENA 100 PEOPLE?
&gt;&gt; THIS HAS BEEN THE THREAT, THE
IDEA THAT IF DEMOCRATS START
CALLING WITNESSES THAT THE TRUMP
TEAM WILL JUST CALL A WHOLE
BUNCH OF WITNESSES, OR ATTEMPT
TO CALL A WHOLE BUNCH OF
WITNESSES, YOU KNOW, IT'S A
THREAT BECAUSE IT MIGHT PUT
SOMEBODY LIKE THE SPEAKER IN A
TOUGH SPOT, IF SHE WERE TO
ACTUALLY HAVE TO TESTIFY, THE
TRUMP TEAM COULD USE THESE
WITNESSES LIKE MURIEL BOWSER TO
SHIFT THE ATTENTION TOWARD WHAT
WAS DONE BEFORE THIS HAPPENED,
HOW MUCH PREPARATION THERE HAVE
BEEN, TO REALLY SHIFT THE FOCUS
ON TO OTHER ISSUES BUT I REALLY
THINK THAT DEMOCRATS WERE IN
MANY WAYS, KIND OF FORCED INTO
THIS POSITION. THERE WAS A LOT
OF CALLS FOR WITNESSES, THAT
DIDN'T EXIST BEFORE, IN LIGHT OF
WHAT WE HEARD ABOUT FROM THE
McCARTHY CALL, IN LIGHT OF SOME
OF THESE OTHER REVELATIONS, SO,
THE IDEA THAT THEY WOULD GO
THROUGH THIS PROCESS AND NOT ASK
TO HEAR MORE INFORMATION, I
THINK
RISKS LOOKING PRETTY BAD. BEYOND
THAT THOUGH, I DON'T BELIEVE
THEY WANT TO DROP US OUT A LOT.
THE TRUMP TEAM UNDERSTANDS THAT,
THAT'S WHY THEY ARE THREATENING
TO CALL THE WITNESSES BECAUSE
THEY KNOW DEMOCRATS DON'T WANT
THIS HANGING OVER THE ENTIRETY
OF BIDEN'S FIRST 100 DAYS. SO
THAT THREAT IS GEARED AS MUCH
TOWARD HAVING WITNESSES THAT MAY
BE DEMOCRATS DON'T WANT TO SEE
OR DRYING THINGS OUT IN A WAY
THAT DEMOCRATS HAVE MADE VERY
CLEAR, THEY DON'T WANT THIS
PROCESS TO BE.
&gt;&gt; THEY HAVE SIMPLE MAJORITIES
THERE, ONLY A COUPLE OF
REPUBLICAN SAY, YEAH, I WOULD
LIKE TO HEAR FROM HER. THEY CAN
SUBPOENA HER, AND IF THEY DO
THAT, AS I BELIEVE YOU MIGHT
HAVE POINTED OUT TO US, YOU OR
JAMES, THIS IS GOING TO SLOW
THINGS DOWN A LOT,
AND AT THE TIME WHICH WHENEVER
ONE OF OUR TEAM WAS DOING THAT,
I WAS DOING MENTAL CALCULATIONS
ABOUT JUST HOW LONG THIS COULD
GO AND HOW FAR WE TEACHING IT
IS. AND IT'S IMPORTANT TO LET
THE PROCESS PLAY OUT. WE ARE NOT
TRYING TO SHOVE THINGS ALONG
BUT, WE ARE NOW IN A HOLIDAY
WEEKEND, SO HERE'S SATURDAY,
TOMORROW IS SUNDAY, THEN MONDAY
IS PRESIDENTS' DAY, THE SENATE
HAD PLANNED TO BE OUT NEXT WEEK,
AND FRANKLY, WE DIDN'T
ANTICIPATE BEING HERE TOMORROW.
SO WHAT ARE WE NOW THINKING
ABOUT THE TIMELINE AND WHAT
COULD HAPPEN?
&gt;&gt; I DON'T KNOW IF I DIDN'T
ANTICIPATE BEING HERE. WE JUST
NEVER KNOW HERE ON THE HILL. I
CAN TELL YOU THIS MORNING WHEN
WE WALKED IN, IT WAS PRETTY DEAD
AND I FOUND PARKING EASILY WHICH
IS ALWAYS A SIGN THAT IT'S NOT
AS BUSY AS A WEEK THE WEEKDAY
AND EVEN HERE IN THE ROTUNDA ON
THE SENATE SIDE, WHEN WE CAME IN
THIS MORNING, IT WAS REALLY JUST
MYSELF AND OUR VIDEOGRAPHER,
JUSTIN, AND THERE WEREN'T MANY
REPORTERS, IT LOOKED LIKE
EVERYBODY WAS TAKING THE DAY
OFF, SO THERE WAS THE
SPECULATION THAT THIS WOULD BE
ALL WRAPPED BROADER UP STORY
TODAY. ABOUT BUTTHE POWER
STRUCTURE IN THE SENATE, RIGHT?
BECAUSE YOU HAVE THESE CORE
SENATORS WHO ARE IN THAT
MODERATE COLUMN, ROMNEY,
MURKOWSKI, COLLINS, THEY'RE
REALLY DRIVING DECISIONS HERE.
THEY REALLY HAVE SOME POWER IN
THIS PROCEEDING, BUT AS WELL AS
WHEN THE SENATE TAKES UP VOTES.
THEY ARE THE ONES THAT HAVE TO
BE, YOU KNOW, LOBBIED AND
WHIPPED TO GO ON ONE SIDE OR THE
OTHER WHEN THERE ARE SO MANY
CLOSE VOTES, AND I THINK WE'RE
SEEING EVIDENCE OF THAT POIR
THAT IF AT ANY MOMENT ENOUGH OF
THOSE IN THE MIDDLE WANT TO JOIN
A DECISION OF THE MAJORITY OR
THE MINORITY THAT THEY CAN
REALLY CHANGE THINGS AND SHIFT
THINGS. SO I THINK THIS IS ALSO
EVIDENCE TOO OF WHAT THE POWER
STRUCTURE IN THE SENATE LOOKS
LIKE RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; AARON BLAKE, LET'S GET YOU IN
HERE ONE MORE TIME BEFORE WE LET
YOU GO. SO IT LOOKS LIKE THINGS
ARE ON PAUSE IN THE SENATE RIGHT
NOW. BUT WHAT WE CAN EXPECT TO
BE HAPPENING IS THEY ARE
FIGURING OUT WHO WANTS TO HEAR
FROM WHICH POTENTIAL WITNESSES,
RIGHT, BECAUSE EVERYONE NEEDS TO
KNOW WHO'S REALLY DRIVING THIS
TRAIN, PERHAPS AS MODERATE
SENATORS THAT RONDA WAS JUST
TALKING ABOUT, AND WHO
SPECIFICALLY THEY'RE GOING TO
WANT TO HEAR FROM:  SO PROBABLY
A LOT OF STRATEGIZING, HAMMERING
THINGS OUT, FIGURING THINGS OUT
BEHIND THE SCENES RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; YEAH. AND A LOT OF THIS IS
GOING TO BE ABOUT HOW THIS IS
GOING TO TAKE PLACE. MICHAEL van
der VEEN, THE TRUMP LAWYER
EXPRESSED CONCERNS ABOUT THE
PROPOSAL FROM JAMIE RASKIN TO
HAVE THIS DEPOSITION TAKE PLACE
OVER A ZOOM CALL. I THINK van
der VEEN AT ONE POINT SAID HE
NEEDED TO DO THESE DEPOSITIONS,
AND HE NEEDED TO THEM IN HIS
OFFICE IN PHILADELPHIA. HE SAID
PHILADELPHIA. SO, AGAIN,
RETURNING TO THE IDEA THAT THIS
IS GOING TO BE MUCH MORE DRAWN
OUT IF DEMOCRATS DEMAND ON GOING
DOWN THIS PATH AND HAVING MORE
DETAILED, LESS CURSORY
INTERVIEWS AND LESS QUICK
INTERVIEWS THAN DEMOCRATS SEEM
TO WANT, THAT'S GOING TO BE
SOMETHING THAT THEY NEED TO
FIGURE OUT. BUT, OF COURSE, WE
HAVE A SITUATION WHICH DEMOCRATS
HAVE CONTROL OVER MUCH OF THIS
PROCESS. THEY ALSO HAVE TO
BALANCE THAT AGAINST LOOKING
LIKE THEY ARE RAILROADING THE
PRESIDENT OR BEING UNFAIR IN HOW
MANY WITNESSES THEY'RE ALLOWING,
THINGS LIKE THAT. THIS IS ALL A
VERY DELICATE PROCESS THAT THEY
NOW HAVE ENTERED INTO IN A
RATHER QUICK FASHION, A RATHER
SURPRISING FASHION TO SOME
PEOPLE, AND NOW IT'S REALLY
ABOUT FIGURING OUT ALL THE
DETAILS WHICH I THINK IS REALLY
WHAT TODAY IS GOING TO BE ABOUT
WHICH IS FAR DIFFERENT FROM WHAT
WE ALL EXPECTED IT TO BE ABOUT.
&gt;&gt; AARON BLAKE, THANKS SO MUCH.
MARCO RUBIO IS TWEETING RIGHT
NOW. HE SAYS THIS, NOW THAT WE
ARE GOING TO HAVE WITNESSES, NO
ONE CAN CLAIM THIS IS A FAIR
TRIAL UNLESS BOTH SIDES ARE NOW
ALLOWED TO CALL THEM.
&gt;&gt; AND THAT'S THE HUGE THING.
YOU SEE THESE CONFERRING
SENATORS, IT'S PRETTY
NOTEWORTHY. YOU ALWAYS CAN TELL
WHO'S TALKING TO WHO, AND THAT'S
MITCH McCONNELL TALKING TO A
LAWYER THERE AND A GROUP OF
OTHER SENATORS. AND WHAT THEY'RE
TRYING TO DO IS KIND OF COME UP
WITH A DEAL, SOME KIND OF
AGREEMENT. YOU KNOW, IT WAS
OBVIOUSLY A 55-45 VOTE. SO YOU
NEED KIND OF A SEPARATE
ORGANIZING RESOLUTION IN TERMS
OF CALLING WITNESSES. SO WHAT'S
PROBABLY HAPPENING RIGHT NOW AND
WHY THIS DELAY COULD GO ON FOR A
WHILE, THIS IS KIND OF A NATURAL
THING THAT HAPPENS IN TRIALS, IS
BASICALLY THE PROSECUTION AND
THE DEFENSE ARE NEGOTIATING SOME
KIND OF TRADE IN ALL LIKELIHOOD,
YOU KNOW, WHERE MAYBE IN
EXCHANGE FOR THE ONE WITNESS
THEY GET, SOME OTHER WITNESS,
OR, YOU KNOW, YOU COULD HAVE
YOUR SIDE CALL THREE WITNESSES.
YOU KNOW, AND PROCESS SORT OF
DOES MATTER IN THE SENATE, BUT
IT ALSO IS SIGNIFICANT FOR
OPTICS. OBVIOUSLY JAMIE RASKIN
JUST WANTS THE ONE WITNESS, AND
THEN THEY CAN MOVE FORWARD AND
KIND OF DEAL WITH THIS
PARTICULAR ISSUE. THE
REPUBLICANS HAVE EVERY INCENTIVE
IF THIS IS GOING TO GET DELAYED
AND IF THEIR PRESIDENTS' DAY
WEEK IS GOING TO BE MESSED UP TO
MAKE THIS AS UNCOMFORTABLE FOR
DEMOCRATS AS POSSIBLE, BUT ALSO
TO GUM UP PRESIDENT BIDEN'S
AGENDA TO KIND OF PORTRAY THIS
AS SOMEHOW SLOWING DOWN COVID
RELIEF OR WHATEVER, EVEN THOUGH,
AS YOU NOTED, THE SENATE WAS
ALREADY SUPPOSED TO BE OFF NEXT
WEEK. SO THOSE CONVERSATIONS ARE
HAPPENING RIGHT NOW. THEY'RE
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT NOT JUST
THE LEGAL STRATEGY HERE, BUT
ALSO THE POLITICAL SORT OF
MESSAGING STRATEGY OF HOW DO YOU
TALK ABOUT THIS. AND IT'S NOT
JUST MARCO RUBIO. YOU'RE SEEING
LINDSAY GRAHAM ALSO TWEET, YOU
KNOW, IF THEY'RE GOING TO DRAG
THIS OUT, WE'RE GOING TO DRAG IT
OUT A REALLY LONG TIME AND GRIND
EVERYTHING TO A HALT AND
ESSENTIALLY DOING WHAT YOU SAW
MICHAEL van der VEEN, THE TRUMP
LAWYER, DO TO THREATEN TO CALL
100 WITNESSES.
&gt;&gt; OKAY. BUT THE QUESTION ABOUT
THAT, JAMES, BOTTOM LINE, YOU
NEED A SIMPLE MAJORITY TO CALL A
SPECIFIC WITNESS, RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; YES.
&gt;&gt; SO, YOU KNOW, PARTISAN PICKS,
I MEAN, YESTERDAY WE HEARD A
QUESTION BY MARCO RUBIO PUT
FORTH TO THE ATTORNEYS THAT
DIDN'T SAY THE NAME HILLARY
CLINTON BUT WAS ALL ABOUT
HILLARY CLINTON, LIKE I'M GOING
TO PARAPHRASE HERE, BUT COULD IN
THE FUTURE THIS SORT OF SNOWBALL
OF PARTISANSHIP CONTINUE AND WE
COULD AT SOME POINT SUBPOENA A
SECRETARY OF STATE AND HAVE HER
-- A FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE
AND HAVE HER COME BEFORE THE
CONGRESS. HILLARY CLINTON WAS
THE NAME THAT HE WAS NOT SAYING.
SO IF WE SEE PARTISAN ENGAGEMENT
AND THE REPUBLICANS TRY TO CALL,
YOU KNOW, SOMEONE WHO'S, LIKE,
COMPLETELY OFF THE RADAR HERE
LIKE A HILLARY CLINTON AND THE
DEMOCRATS TRY TO CALL SOMEONE,
LIKE LET'S SAY THEY WANT TO HEAR
FROM DONALD TRUMP, BUT
REPUBLICANS FEEL LIKE THAT IS
JUST LIKE A NONSTARTER AND NOT
GOING TO HAPPEN, YOU KNOW, WHERE
DOES THAT GO?
&gt;&gt; YEAH. SO IT ENDS UP --
TECHNICALLY THERE'S SOME
PROCEDURAL COMPLICATIONS. BUT
YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT. THE
BOTTOM LINE IS THAT, LIKE, IF
REPUBLICANS WANT TO CALL KAMALA
HARRIS AND ASK HER ABOUT WHEN
SHE URGED PEOPLE ON TWITTER TO
DONATE TO A DEFENSE FUND FOR
PEOPLE WHO WERE GETTING ARRESTED
AS PART OF THE PROTESTS OVER THE
SUMMER AFTER GEORGE FLOYD WAS
KILLED WHICH IS SOMETHING THAT
THE REPUBLICAN -- THE DEFENSE
LAWYERS FOR THE FORMER PRESIDENT
MENTIONED, LIKE, EIGHT TIMES
YESTERDAY, THAT'S JUST NOT
GERMANE AT ALL TO THE TRIAL. AND
NO DEMOCRAT IS GOING TO VOTE TO
CALL KAMALA HARRIS, AND, IN
FACT, YOU KNOW, SO YOU COULD
HAVE 50 -- I MEAN, IT'S A
TIEBREAKING VOTE, SO THERE'S
SOME WEIRD SCENARIO WHERE KAMALA
HARRIS COULD HAVE TO COME BREAK
THE TIE IF IT WAS A 50/50 SPLIT.
BUT THE TRUTH IS PEOPLE LIKE
MITT ROMNEY ARE SERIOUS MINDED
ABOUT THIS, AND ROMNEY'S NOT
GOING TO PLAY ALONG WITH SOME --
YOU KNOW, OF THE KIND OF
PROCEDURAL GAMES THAT SOMEONE
LIKE TED CRUZ OR JOSH HAWLEY
WOULD WANT TO PLAY. SO
ULTIMATELY THIS COULD END UP
GETTING BOGGED DOWN, AND THERE
IS SOME KIND OF LEGAL OBLIGATION
OF FAIRNESS WHERE IF THERE ARE
PEOPLE -- THE TRUMP TEAM WANTS
TO CALL THAT COULD BE
EXCULPATORY, IT COULD BE HARD TO
SAY NO TO THEM FOR SOME OF THE
DEMOCRATS. BUT THE TRUTH IS THAT
THEY'VE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO
DO THAT. THE TRUMP DEFENSE
LAWYERS COULD HAVE HAD DAN ASK
AVINO, THE PRESIDENT'S FORMER
CADDY TURNED SOCIAL MEDIA GURU,
TURNED DEPUTY WHITE HOUSE CHIEF
OF STAFF WHO WAS WITH TRUMP IN
THE ROOM WHEN ALL THIS WAS
PLAYING OUT, YOU COULD HAVE DAN
ASK AVINO, YOU KNOW, IF THEY HAD
A GOOD STORY TO TELL, TRUMP'S
LAWYERS COULD SAY THEY WANTED
HIM TO COME AND TALK ABOUT HOW
HORRIFIED DONALD TRUMP WAS THAT
DAY. BUT HE WASN'T. SO THEY'RE
NOT EAGER TO HAVE SKAVINO
TESTIFY. NOW, THE QUESTION THAT
WE TALKED ABOUT IN THE LAST
COUPLE MINUTES IS WHAT IF
DEMOCRATS SAY WE WANT DAN
SKAVINO TO TESTIFY WHO WAS WITH
TRUMP WHILE ALL THIS WAS PLAYING
OUT, AND CABLE TV WAS ON AND HAD
A GOOD SENSE OF WHAT WAS IN
TRUMP'S MIND, SKAVINO WOULD NOT
WANT TO TESTIFY. HE WOULD BE A
HOSTILE WITNESS. HE WOULD SAY
HIS COMMENTS WERE PROTECTED BY
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE BECAUSE HE
WAS GIVING THE PRESIDENT CANDID
ADVICE. AND THEN YOU ACTUALLY
COULD END UP GOING INTO A COURT
PROCEEDING, YOU KNOW, WHERE
BECAUSE CHIEF JUSTICE JOHN
ROBERTS ISN'T OVERSEEING THIS,
IT GOES TO THE COURTS AND GETS
BOGGED DOWN AND DRAGGED OUT, AND
SO THAT'S WHY DEMOCRATS DON'T
WANT TO CALL PEOPLE FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE WHO ARE MATERIAL
WITNESSES, AND, INSTEAD, THEY
WANT JAMIE HERRERA BEULLER WHO'S
NOT A WITNESS. JAMIE RASKIN WHEN
HE WAS IN THE MARYLAND STATE
SENATE BEFORE HE WAS ELECTED TO
CONGRESS, HE WAS FAMOUS FOR
PLAYING MULTIPLE CHESS GAMES IN
THE BASEMENT OF THE STATE
CAPITOL IN ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND,
AND HE WOULD GO PLAY CHESS AND
BEAT ALL OF THEM. IT DOES FEEL
LIKE JAMIE IS TRYING TO PLAY
SOME CHESS HERE, YOU KNOW, THAT
HE IS -- HE'S THOUGHT THROUGH
KIND OF HOW THIS WOULD PLAY OUT
AND HOW THE REPUBLICANS WOULD
LIKELY RESPOND TO WHAT HE TRIED
TO DO. WE DON'T KNOW IF HE
TALKED TO HERRERA BEULLER BEFORE
HE DID THIS SURPRISE THING.
&gt;&gt; SORRY. I DIDN'T MEAN TO CUT
YOU OFF.
&gt;&gt; WE DO KNOW THAT SOME OF THE
DEMOCRATS  WHEN THEY WERE
WALKING TO THE CHAMBER TWO
MINUTES BEFORE THIS STARTED SAID
THERE WEREN'T GOING TO BE
WITNESSES AND THEY'RE WORTH THE
VOTES FOR WITNESSES.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; SO THIS IS KIND OF A MOVE,
THIS IS SORT OF A GAMBIT THAT
RASKIN SORT OF SPRING IN SOME
WAYS ON EVEN THESE DEMOCRATIC
SENATORS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH. IT'S IMPORTANT TO POINT
OUT THAT JUST LIKE WE'VE SEEN
TRUMP'S ATTORNEYS COLLABORATING
AND HAVING CONVERSATIONS WITH
THE REPUBLICANS, JAMES, THE
DEMOCRATS CAN ALSO HAVE
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, OF COURSE.
&gt;&gt; OF COURSE.
&gt;&gt; BUT OUR COLLEAGUE ANNIE
LINSKY IS POINTING OUT ON
TWITTER THIS, ANOTHER REMINDER
OF SOMEONE WHO COVERED RASKIN IN
THE MARYLAND STATEHOUSE, HE CAN
PLAY MULTIPLE GAMES OF CHESS AND
WIN THEM ALL. SO THIS IDEA OF
RASKIN PLAYING A GAME OF CHESS
AND MAYBE NOT LOOPING IN THE
DEMOCRATIC COLLEAGUES IN THE
SENATE, YOU KNOW, THIS IS THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER'S JOB, AND
SO THEY MAY BE DECIDING TO CARRY
OUT THEIR JOB THE WAY THEY BEST
SEE FIT. I DO WANT TO BRING
RHONDA COLVIN INTO THE
CONVERSATION. WE'RE LEARNING
MORE ABOUT SORT OF HOW THE
RELATIONSHIPS ON THE SENATE
FLOOR ARE PLAYING OUT RIGHT NOW
AND WHERE THE AREAS OF TENSION
ARE, AND WE ARE HEARING FROM OUR
COLLEAGUE KIM THAT THERE ARE
SOME REAL MOMENTS OF TENSION AND
ARGUMENT HAPPENING ON THE
FLOOR AS EVERYONE TRIES TO
FIGURE OUT SORT OF WHAT THE NEXT
STEPS FORWARD ARE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH. AND I THINK THAT
ILLUSTRATES THAT THIS WAS A BIT
UNANTICIPATED BY BOTH SIDES,
REALLY, THAT THEY PROBABLY WERE
SETTING UP FOR A SHORTER DAY OR
AT LEAST A WRAPUP TO THIS TRIAL
MOVING FORWARD. WE TALKED
EARLIER ABOUT HOW DEMOCRATS HAVE
WANTED THIS TO NOT BE PROLONGED
BECAUSE THEY WANT TO PUT BIDEN'S
AGENDA BACK ON THE TABLE AND IN
THE FOREFRONT. BUT YOU SEE WHEN
YOU HAVE THESE UNANTICIPATED
MOMENTS WHAT SENATORS HAVE TO DO
TO FIGURE OUT THEIR OWN NEXT
STEPS AND THEIR CAULK US' NEXT
STEPS. I THINK THIS IS SO
INTERESTING BECAUSE THIS IS A
DEVELOPING STORY THAT WE REALLY
CAN'T FORECAST JUST YET UNTIL WE
GET SOME FURTHER DETAILS. BUT IT
IS SHOWING THAT THIS WAS NOT
VERY PLANNED AND THAT EVERYONE
SORT OF HAD THEIR IDEA OF HOW
THIS DAY WAS GOING TO GO. SO IT
ALMOST SEEMS A BIT OF A SCRAMBLE
WHICH MAY BE GOOD AND BAD
BECAUSE IF IT'S A SCRAMBLE, YOU
MAY NOT BE GIVING ENOUGH TIME TO
WHAT CREDIBLE WITNESSES MAY HELP
YOUR SIDE. YOU MAY JUST WANT TO,
YOU KNOW, PICK A FEW THAT MIGHT
WORK FOR YOU AND GO WITH THAT,
BUT THEY MAY NOT BE YOUR
STRONGEST TESTIMONIES, REALLY.
YOU KNOW, WE MENTIONED THAT THIS
COULD FORESEABLY BE A TIME WHERE
YOU COULD SEE THEM CALLING IN
CAPITOL OFFICERS WHO CAN DETAIL
WHAT THEY EXPERIENCED ON THE
LEVEL OF THIS BEING A
PREMEDITATED ATTACK THAT STARTED
AS PEOPLE WERE COMING FROM THE
ELLIPSE. YOU CAN TALK TO
STAFFERS WHO HAD TO BARRICADE.
YOU COULD ALSO BRING IN OTHER
MEMBERS OF THE SENATE AND THE
HOUSE TO DISCUSS WHAT THEY WENT
THROUGH. SO THIS IS CERTAINLY --
THE DETAILS ARE STILL COMING
FORWARD.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO NOW TO SENIOR
CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT PAUL
CANE WHO JOIN US BY PHONE. PK,
WHAT CAN YOU TELL US ABOUT WHAT
KIND OF A SURPRISE THIS MAY HAVE
ABOUT TO MEMBERS OF THIS SENATE
JURY?
&gt;&gt; I WAS JUST SORTING THROUGH
ALL THE REPORTING THAT ALL OF US
CONGRESSIONAL REPORTERS HAVE
BEEN DOING AND SHARING VIA POOL
TO GIVE A SENSE OF HOW
SURPRISING THIS WAS. LET ME READ
THREE DIFFERENT SENATORS, ALL
FROM THE VERY LIBERAL END OF
THINGS, YOU KNOW, VERY
ANTI-TRUMP DEMOCRATIC SENATORS
MOMENTS BEFORE THE TRIAL BEGAN.
SO BETWEEN 9:50 AND 10:00 A.M.
DICKEN THAL OF CONNECTICUT. MY
ADVICE RIGHT NOW IS THIS CASE IS
SO POWERFUL, EVERYBODY KNOWS
THAT TRUMP DIDN'T GIVE A DAM
ABOUT ANYBODY IN THIS BUILDING
OR AS VICE PRESIDENT EVEN THOUGH
HE WAS IN REAL DANGER. THE
EVIDENCE IS SO POWERFUL ALREADY
IN THE RECORD. I DON'T KNOW THAT
WE -- THAT THEY NEED THEM, THEY
BEING THE MANAGERS, NEED THEM,
WITNESSES. MAZIE HIRONO OF
HAWAII TO OUR "THE WASHINGTON
POST" MIKE DEBONUS. I THINK THEY
MADE SUCH A STRONG CASE. IF I
BROUGHT IN ADDITIONAL WITNESSES,
DOT, DOT, DOT, IF I THOUGHT THAT
ANY FURTHER WITNESSES WOULD
CHANGE ANY REPUBLICAN MINDS, I
SAY GO FOR IT, BUT I DON'T THINK
SO. ELIZABETH WARREN AROUND THE
SAME TIME, WHILE SAYING THAT SHE
WOULD DEFER TO HOUSE MANAGERS,
WARREN SAID I THINK THE CASE HAS
ALREADY BEEN MADE PRETTY CLEAR
THAT DONALD TRUMP KNEW WHAT HE
WAS DOING AND INCITING A RIOT,
AND THAT HE WANTED PEOPLE TO
RIOT. I THINK THIS IS FURTHER
EVIDENCE OF THAT. IT STRENGTHENS
A CASE THAT IS ALREADY
UNDENIABLE. THESE ARE THREE OF
THE MOST LIBERAL SENATORS, VERY
ANTI-TRUMP SENATORS WHO CLEARLY
AT 9:50, 9:55 A.M. WALKED ONTO
THE SENATE FLOOR BELIEVING THAT
THERE WOULD BE NO WITNESSES
CALLED, AND THEY WOULD BE MOVING
TOWARD A FINAL VOTE TODAY AND
THAT THEY EXPECTED THE VOTE TO,
YOU KNOW, HAVE A MAJORITY TO
CONVICT BUT NOT THE 2/3 MAJORITY
TO, YOU KNOW, FULLY CONVICT, AND
THEY GOT THROWN A CURVE BALL.
THERE WAS -- SOMETHING HAPPENED
TODAY, LAST NIGHT AND TODAY, AND
IT WAS A BREACH BETWEEN WHAT THE
HOUSE MANAGERS AND SENATE
LEADERSHIP. CHUCK SCHUMER REALLY
MISMANAGED THIS ENTIRE PROCESS
BY -- HE WANTED TO AVOID LOOKING
LIKE HE WAS GOING SOFT ON TRUMP,
BUT SCHUMER REALLY JUST WANTS TO
GET ON WITH THE DEMOCRATIC
AGENDA. HE REALLY WANTS TO PASS
A LEGISLATIVE COVID RELIEF
PACKAGE THAT WILL SEND CHECKS
DIRECTLY TO MOST AMERICAN
VOTERS. AND HE GAVE A LINE TO
EVERYONE THAT OUR LINE WAS -- ON
WITNESSES, WE WILL DEFER TO THE
MANAGERS, WE'LL DEFER TO THE
MANAGERS, ALWAYS BELIEVING THAT
THE MANAGERS WOULD IN TURN NOT
NEED WITNESSES BECAUSE THE CASE
WOULD BE SO UNDENIABLE IN THE
WORDS OF SENATOR WARREN. BUT IN
THE LAST 24 HOURS IT BECAME
INCREASINGLY CLEAR OVER AND OVER
AGAIN THAT THERE WAS A LOT OF
CONFUSION SURROUNDING WHAT
DONALD TRUMP DID HIMSELF ABOUT
THIS INSURRECTION. THEY HAD
NEVER GOTTEN TO THE CORE
QUESTION OF EVERY PRESIDENTIAL
SCANDAL GOING BACK TO WATERGATE.
WHAT DID THE PRESIDENT KNOW, AND
WHEN DID HE KNOW IT? AND THAT
HAS BEEN THE DISPUTE. AND BILL
CASSIDY OF LOUISIANA TOLD ME
YESTERDAY MORNING THAT WAS THE
CENTRAL ISSUE FOR HIM. HE WANTED
TO HAVE
THE QUESTION ANSWERED, DID THE
PRESIDENT KNOW THAT THE VICE
PRESIDENT WAS, LIKE, STEPS AWAY
FROM POTENTIAL MORTAL ROOMS? DID
HE KNOW THAT THE SENATE WAS IN
DANGER AND BEING EVACUATED? AND
THE TRIAL DEFENSE OF DONALD
TRUMP, HIS LAWYERS GAVE A
TERRIBLE ANSWER TO THAT
QUESTION. THEY GAVE NO ANSWER AT
ALL. THEY LEFT IT COMPLETELY
CONFUSED AND UP IN THE AIR AS TO
WHETHER TRUMP KNEW ABOUT THIS --
YOU KNOW, KNEW THE DANGER OF
THIS ATTACK. AND THAT OPENED THE
DOOR TO PEOPLE WHO ARE
ANTI-TRUMP, INCLUDING JAMIE
HERRERA BEUTLER OF WASHINGTON
STATE, A REPUBLICAN WHO VOTED TO
IMPEACH TRUMP, AND SHE BASICALLY
HAD BEEN TELLING HER HOMETOWN
PRESS FOR A FEW WEEKS ABOUT THIS
CALL WITH KEVIN McCARTHY IN
WHICH McCARTHY OUTLINED FOR
LAWMAKERS JUST HOW AWFUL TRUMP
WAS TOWARD THE FEAR OF WHAT WAS
HAPPENING IN THE CAPITOL. ONCE
THAT GOT RE -- ONCE IT WENT FROM
THE SMALLTOWN WASHINGTON STATE
PRESS INTO THE NATIONAL AND
INTERNATIONAL PRESS, IT BECAME
THE MANAGERS WENT, OH, WAIT A
SECOND, WE NOW HAVE AN OBVIOUS
WITNESS TO CALL. AND THAT SET UP
THIS SCENARIO WHERE THE HOUSE
MANAGERS COME IN TODAY SAYING,
YEAH, WE WANT A WITNESS. WE WANT
AT LEAST THIS ONE WITNESS,
CONGRESSWOMAN -- THE REPUBLICAN
FROM
WASHINGTON STATE. BUT NOW --
THIS WAS A TOTALLY ORGANIC
MOMENT. THE DEMOCRATS WENT INTO
THE FLOOR TODAY EXPECTING TO NOT
EVEN VOTE ON WITNESSES, TO HAVE
A MOTION THAT WOULD GO STRAIGHT
TO CLOSING ARGUMENTS. ONCE
RASKIN STOOD UP AND ASKED FOR
WITNESSES, THEY WERE STUCK. THEY
WERE HAMSTRUNG BECAUSE SCHUMER
HAD SET THEM UP FOR WEEKS WITH
THIS ANSWER OF WE WILL DEFER TO
THE MANAGERS, WE WILL DEFER TO
THE MANAGERS. THE MANAGERS ASKED
FOR WITNESSES, AND NOW THEY'VE
GOT THEM, AND NOBODY KNOWS WHAT
THE NEXT STEPS ARE IN THIS
PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; NOBODY KNOWS WHAT THE NEXT
STEPS ARE IN THIS PROCESS. PK,
JUST WHEN YOU THINK YOU HAVE
CONGRESS HAVEFIGURED OUT,
EVERYTHING CHANGES. HOW LONG
HAVE YOU BEEN DOING THIS JOB?
&gt;&gt; WELL, IF YOU INCLUDE THE 37
YEARS OR SO AT ROLL CALL, THIS
IS 20, 21 YEARS OF JUST FOCUSED
ENTIRELY ON CONGRESS.
&gt;&gt; AND YOU CAN STILL SEE CURVE
BALLS HAPPEN. SO, PK, IMPORTANT
TO REMIND OUR VIEWERS THAT EVEN
THOUGH MICHAEL van der VEEN,
TRUMP'S LAWYER, THREATENED TO
SUBPOENA 100 WITNESSES AND HAVE
THEM DRAGGED TO PHILADELPHIA TO
BE DEPOSED, IT'S NOT UP TO HIM.
IT'S UP TO THE SENATE. THE
SENATE GETS TO DECIDE WHICH
WITNESSES AND HOW MANY.
&gt;&gt; YES. YEAH, ABSOLUTELY. THIS
IS UP TO THE SENATE NOW. AND IT
ALWAYS WAS. I MEAN, WITH
SCHUMER'S MESSAGING LINE, THE
REASON IT WAS SO STUPID WAS THAT
THIS HAS ALWAYS BEEN UP TO THE
SENATORS. IT HAS NEVER BEEN UP
TO THE HOUSE MANAGERS. WITNESSES
ARE ALWAYS CALLED BY THE SENATE.
THE SUBPOENAS, IF THEY DO BRING
WITNESSES, ARE VOTED ON AND
APPROVED BY THE SENATE. SO IT IS
UP TO A MAJORITY OF THE SENATE
TO DECIDE WHAT WITNESSES THEY
WANT. AND NOW THE REALITY IS YOU
HAVE A GROUP OF 54 WHO HAVE
VOTED AFFIRMATIVELY WITH THE
MANAGERS
TO CALL WITNESSES. THE 55th VOTE
IS LINDSAY GRAHAM. DISCOUNT
LINDSAY GRAHAM BECAUSE HE
CHANGED HIS VOTE TO YES MERELY
BECAUSE HE'S ON TRUMP'S SIDE,
AND GRAHAM WANTED -- THOUGHT
THAT MAYBE IF THIS WAS THE ONLY
VOTE ON WITNESSES, HE WANTED TO
VOTE YES BECAUSE LINDSAY GRAHAM
WANTS TO CALL 100 WITNESSES,
JUST LIKE THE TRUMP DEFENSE TEAM
DOES. SO NOW YOU HAVE THE OTHER
54 WHO VOTED YES ARE ESSENTIALLY
THEIR OWN PORTION OF THE JURY
POOL. THEY GET TO DECIDE WHAT
WITNESSES WILL COME FORWARD NOW.
THEY CAN -- WE COULD HAVE LIKE A
SLOW PROCESS WHEREBY THEY VOTE
ONE BY ONE, OR THEY COULD
ESSENTIALLY PASS A NEW
RESOLUTION THAT WOULD GOVERN THE
REST OF THE TRIAL, AND IT COULD
SPECIFY HOW MANY WITNESSES ARE
GOING TO BE CALLED, IS IT JUST
HERRERA BEUTLER, ARE THERE A FEW
OTHERS? I THINK WE ARE STUCK
HERE WHERE NOBODY -- YOU KNOW,
USUALLY YOU HAVE THIS PLANNED
OUT SO THAT YOU KNEW GOING IN
YOU WERE GOING TO GET WITNESSES,
SO THERE ALREADY WOULD HAVE BEEN
A RESOLUTION DRAFTED, AND, YOU
KNOW, YOU'D MOVE TO THAT RIGHT
NOW. BUT BECAUSE THIS IS, LIKE,
REALLY UNKNOWN THEATER, YOU'RE
STUCK, AND THEY HAVE TO -- THIS
COULD TAKE HOURS TODAY TO MAP
OUT THE NEXT STEPS. AND, YOU
KNOW, THERE'S A SHORT OPTION
WHICH IS, YOU KNOW, DESIGNATE A
COUPLE OF SENATORS TO OVERSEE
JUST ONE OR TWO DEPOSITIONS
WHICH IS WHAT THEY DID IN 1999,
TWO SENATORS AND THE HOUSE
MANAGERS AND THE BILL CLINTON
DEFENSE TEAM WENT AND DEPOSED
THREE WITNESSES. IT TOOK A WEEK
TO DO. OR THE OTHER OPTION IS --
AND THIS WOULD TAKE CONSENSUS
FROM REPUBLICANS TO DO, AND I'M
NOT SURE THEY'LL AGREE TO GET
ALONG, TO GO ALONG WITH THIS,
THE OTHER OPTION IS THEY COULD
HAVE DONE AT THE OUTSET OF THIS
TRIAL, AND THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
TO SIMPLY FORM A TRIAL COMMITTEE
AND AT THE OUTSET AND LET THEM
DO ALL THE LEGAL WORK AND ALL
THE DEPOSITIONS AND EVERYTHING
FROM THE BEGINNING WHILE THE
REST OF THE SENATE WENT ABOUT
DOING ITS BUSINESS AND THEN HAVE
THE TRIAL COMMITTEE COME IN AND
PRESENT ALL OF THE DEPOSITIONS
AND WITNESSES' TESTIMONY, VIDEO
TESTIMONY IF THEY NEED ANY OF
IT, THEY COULD HAVE DONE THAT
FROM THE OUTSET. THAT'S WHERE IT
OFTEN HAS BEEN DONE IN JUDICIAL
IMPEACHMENT TRIALS. BUT NOW, YOU
KNOW, YOU'RE STUCK. THE TRIAL
HAS ALREADY BEGUN. TO PAUSE THE
TRIAL AND TO MOVE INTO ANY SORT
OF LEGISLATIVE BUSINESS, THEY
HAVE TO HAVE A CONSENT
AGREEMENT, AND I DON'T THINK
REPUBLICANS AT THIS STAGE
PROBABLY WON'T AGREE TO THAT
BECAUSE THEY WOULD CONSENT TO GO
BACK INTO LEGISLATIVE BUSINESS.
THAT'S GOING TO BE THE PARTISAN
$1.9 TRILLION COVID RELIEF BILL.
SO THEY'RE NOT GOING TO WANT TO
LET THE DEMOCRATS MOVE TO THAT
LEGISLATIVE PACKAGE. I THINK WE
COULD BE STUCK HERE IN LIMBO FOR
A BIT.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR CONGRESSIONAL
CORRESPONDENT PAUL KANE, THANK
YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING US,
REALLY APPRECIATE IT. AND YOU
CAN CONTINUE TO READ THE
REPORTING OF PK AND ALL OF OUR
OTHER CONGRESSIONAL
CORRESPONDENTS, SOME OF WHOM ARE
ON CAPITOL HILL RIGHT NOW AT
WASHINGTONPOST.COM. WE DO HAVE
AN ONGOING LIVE BLOG, AND WE'LL
CONTINUE TO BRING YOU LATEST IN
JUST WHAT THEY ARE SHARING WITH
US. RHONDA COLVIN, YOU KNOW, WE
ARE HEARING THIS FROM OUR
COLLEAGUES WHO HAVE BEEN ABLE TO
BE INSIDE THE SENATE CHAMBER
THAT SENATORS INCLUDING ROMNEY
AND RON JOHNSON OF WISCONSIN
WERE IN A HEATED ARGUMENT AS
THIS CALL FOR WITNESSES THREW
EVERYTHING INTO CHAOS. SO THIS
WAS AS PAUL KANE JUST SHARED
WITH US A CURVE BALL. YOU KNOW,
DEMOCRATS ARE HAVING TO ADJUST,
BUT ALSO REPUBLICANS ARE HAVING
TO SCRAMBLE AND ADJUST RIGHT
NOW, RHONDA.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S RIGHT. AND OF COURSE
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT THE FOCUS OF
THEIR ARGUMENT MIGHT HAVE BEEN.
BUT IT DOES SHOW YOU HOW
UNANTICIPATED THIS WAS. AND I
KEEP SAYING THAT, AND ALSO THIS
LONG PAUSE IS ALSO ILLUSTRATING
THAT POINT TOO, THAT EVERYONE IS
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT THE NEXT
MOVE FORWARD BECAUSE THEY
THOUGHT THEY HAD THE DAY ALREADY
FIGURED OUT. I THINK
REPUBLICANS, YOU KNOW, MAY
DIRECT SOME ANGER TOWARD MR.
ROMNEY, AS WELL AS THE OTHER
REPUBLICANS WHO VOTED TO CALL
WITNESSES BECAUSE, YOU KNOW,
THAT MAY NOT HAVE BEEN THE WISH
OF THE CAUCUS. HOWEVER, YOU ALSO
HAD LINDSAY GRAHAM A PART OF
THAT VOTE TOO. SO I THINK RIGHT
NOW THEY'RE ALL TRYING TO
READJUST, REFIGURE OUT WHAT THE
NEXT FEW DAYS LOOK LIKE, AND I
THINK THE REPUBLICANS LEFT LAST
NIGHT -- AT LEAST THE
REPUBLICANS WHO HAD SAID THEY
WERE OPPOSED TO CONVICTION, THEY
LEFT LAST NIGHT FEELING THAT THE
DEFENSE TEAM DID A PRETTY GOOD
JOB AT SORT OF CHANGING THE
TONE, THAT THE SENATE SENT A FEW
DAYS THIS WEEK AND REALLY
EMOTIONALLY GRAPPLING WITH THE
IMAGES THAT THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS SHARED, AND THEN
YESTERDAY WE HAD A VERY QUICK
DEFENSE ARGUMENT THAT THIS WAS
ABOUT FIRST SPEECH AND NOT ABOUT
WHAT TRUMP WAS DOING AFTER OR
DURING THE RIOT, IT'S ABOUT THE
BEGINNING AND THE PROVOKING. SO
I THINK REPUBLICANS FELT THAT
THEY COULD LEAVE ON A NOTE OF
THIS IS ALREADY SUMMED UP, BUT
THIS IS SUCH A CURVE BALL. AND I
THINK THAT ARGUMENT THAT OUR
COLLEAGUES ARE SAYING IS
HAPPENING OR THOSE TENSE WORDS
BETWEEN ROMNEY AND OTHERS IS
JUST EVIDENCE THAT NO ONE WAS
REALLY PREPARED FOR THIS, AND IT
IS FORCING THE REPUBLICANS TO
FIGURE OUT THE NEXT BEST STEPS
BECAUSE IF WE HAD ENDED TODAY,
IT LOOKED VERY MUCH LIKE AN
ACQUITTAL, AND A QUICK
ACQUITTAL. BUT NOW EVEN THAT 2/3
VOTE MIGHT STILL BE HARD TO GET
TO, THIS IS AT LEAST SHOWING
THAT WITNESSES COULD BRING IN A
WHOLE NEW ELEMENT TO THIS TRIAL
THAT WAS UNEXPECTED.
&gt;&gt; JAMES HOMAN, YOU KNOW, WE CAN
ASSUME THAT RON JOHNSON IS
FRUSTRATED WITH MITT ROMNEY
BECAUSE HE'S ONLY ONE OF A
HANDFUL OF REPUBLICANS WHO SIDED
WITH DEMOCRATS TO OPEN THE DOOR
TO CALLING WITNESSES, RIGHT? SO
ROMNEY IS DEPARTING FROM THE
REPUBLICAN GAME PLAN HERE. BUT
YOU HAVE TO WONDER, YOU KNOW,
WHOSE RESPONSIBILITY REALLY IS
THIS? BECAUSE TRUMP'S LAWYERS
COULD HAVE TRIED TO ANSWER SOME
OF THESE ANTICIPATED QUESTIONS
WHICH WE KNEW GOING INTO
YESTERDAY'S PRESENTATION BY THEM
THAT REPUBLICANS HAD. THEY ALSO
COULD HAVE TRIED TO ANSWER THE
QUESTIONS IN THE Q&amp;A PERIOD, THE
ACTUAL Q&amp;A PERIOD. BUT THEY
DIDN'T. THEY EITHER OBJECT FEW
SKATED, CHANGED -- OBJECT VIEW
SKATED, CHANGED THE SUBJECT AND
WHAT THEY CALLED A QUICK
TIMELINE AND LACK OF DISCOVERY
FOR THEIR OWN INABILITY TO
ANSWER QUESTIONS ABOUT DONALD
TRUMP'S ACTIVITIES AND STATE OF
MIND.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, LIBBY. THIS IS WHAT
HAPPENS WHEN YOU HIRE A PERSONAL
INJURY LAWYER TO REPRESENT YOU
IN AN IMPEACHMENT TRIAL. THESE
PEOPLE AREN'T CONSTITUTIONAL
SCHOLARS. THEY'VE NEVER PLAYED
AT THIS LEVEL. YOU KNOW, THEY
LITERALLY DO KIND OF AMBULANCE
CHASING STUFF. THEY HAVE
BILLBOARDS AND RUN TV CUSTOMER
SALS IN PHILADELPHIA SAYING IF
YOU HAVE BEEN IN A CAR ACCIDENT,
CALL US. THESE AREN'T
IMPEACHMENT LAWYERS. THESE
AREN'T THE EXPERTS AT THIS. AND
THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT THEIR
STRATEGY YESTERDAY, NOT THE
LERCHT OF THEIR DEFENSE, BUT THE
STONEWALLING OF THIS CREATED
THIS SITUATION. IF THEY HAD
GIVEN SOME KIND OF TIMELINE, IF
THEY HAD GIVEN SOME DETAIL ON
WHAT THE PRESIDENT WAS DOING,
EVEN IF THEY HAD EMPHASIZED THE
THINGS THE PRESIDENT DID DO
LATER IN THE DAY, ALL OF THAT
WOULD HAVE SORT OF PREVENTED
THIS FROM BECOMING A BIG ISSUE.
BUT THEIR SORT OF REFUSAL TO SAY
ANYTHING, THEIR ATTACKS ON THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
CLEARLY IN SOME WAYS PROVOKED
PEOPLE LIKE RASKIN TO SAY, OKAY,
WELL, THEN LET'S CALL A
REPUBLICAN MEMBER OF CONGRESS AS
A WITNESS IF THAT'S THE ARGUMENT
THAT YOU'RE GOING TO MAKE. AND
THEN I THINK THE FACT THAT THEY
STONEWALLED SPECIFICALLY WHEN IT
CAME TO THESE REPUBLICAN
SENATORS WHO WERE ON THE FENCE,
REFUSING TO GIVE ANYTHING TO
SUSAN COLLINS OR LISA MURKOWSKI
ON MITT ROMNEY, ALL THREE OF
WHOM ASKED VARIATIONS OF THE
QUESTION, WHAT DID THE PRESIDENT
KNOW, WHEN DID HE KNOW IT, WHAT
DID HE DO? AND BY NOT ENGAGING
AT ALL, THEY HAVE LED THE
GROUNDWORK NOW FOR THERE TO BE
DISCOVERY FOR THESE QUESTIONS TO
BE ANSWERED. AND THAT'S WHY YOU
HEARD MICHAEL van der VEEN --
YOU KNOW, HE WAS CLEARLY CAUGHT
OFF GUARD SAYING ITS IRRELEVANT
WHAT TRUMP DID AFTER THE MOB
BREACHED THE CAPITOL WHICH IS AN
ARGUMENT THAT IS -- YOU KNOW, NO
ONE WOULD SAY MAKES SENSE.
&gt;&gt; AND MOST IMPORTANTLY MAY NOT
MAKE SENSE TO THOSE REPUBLICANS
WHO ARE GENUINELY TRYING TO
GRAPPLE WITH THE QUESTION OF
SHOULD THEY VOTE TO CONVICT THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR HIGH CRIMES AND
MISDEMEANORS. THEY HAVE ASKED
SPECIFICALLY FOR CLARIFICATION
OF THE TIMELINE OF WHAT TRUMP
WAS DOING IN THOSE HOURS AFTER
THE ATTACK BEGAN TO UNFOLD.
&gt;&gt; AND, YOU KNOW, WHAT'S WILD IS
WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT IT, SO
OBVIOUSLY THIS WAS NOT THE FIRST
LEGAL TEAM. THE FIRST LEGAL TEAM
WAS THE THREE LAWYERS FROM SOUTH
CAROLINA WHO QUIT TWO WEEKENDS
AGO. BUT ALREADY THESE LAWYERS
COST BILL CASSIDY WHO WAS
PLANNING TO VOTE THAT THE TRIAL
WASN'T CONSTITUTIONAL, COULDN'T
MOVE FORWARD, AND THEN CHANGED
HIS VOTE BECAUSE OF THE POOR
QUALITY OF THE PRESIDENT'S LEGAL
DEFENSE. YOU KNOW, IN A REAL
COURT OF LAW, IN A TRADITIONAL
COURT OF LAW, YOU WOULD BE ABLE
TO ARGUE THAT YOU GOT BAD
COUNSEL AS GROUNDS FOR AN
APPEAL. YOU CAN'T ARGUE THAT IN
AN IMPEACHMENT TRIAL. BUT
THERE'S NO DISPUTING THAT TRUMP
HAS BEEN POORLY SERVED BY BAD
LAWYERING, AND THAT THAT IS NOW
POTENTIALLY PUT HIM IN JEOPARDY.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF
REPUBLICANS -- ONCE YOU OPEN
THIS BOX, ONCE YOU HAVE MORE
WITNESSES WHO REALLY COULD SPEAK
TO THE PRESIDENT'S CALLOUSNESS
ON JANUARY 6th THAT COULD
ESTABLISH HIS DEER LEX OF DUTY,
YOU COULD LOSE A FEW
AND SO IT'S AMAZING THAT EVERY
LAWYER WOULD BE TYPICALLY
THRILLED AT THE CHANCE TO
REPRESENT A CLIENT WHO ALMOST
CERTAINLY CAN'T LOSE IN COURT,
YOU KNOW, THEY ONLY HAD TO GET
34 REPUBLICANS. BUT IN THIS CASE
THEY'RE LITERALLY IN REAL TIME
WATCHING THEMSELVES LOSE MEMBERS
OF THE JURY OR AT LEAST ALIENATE
THEM.
&gt;&gt; WE'VE BEEN KEEPING AN EYE ON
THE LBJ ROOM ON CAPITOL HILL.
THAT IS WHERE TRUMP'S TEAM HAS
BEEN PREPARING. SO JUST A LITTLE
WHILE AGO WE SAW THE DEFENSE
TEAM LEAVE THAT LBJ ROOM. AND
THEY DID NOT STOP FOR COMMENT.
BUT WHEN ASKED ABOUT WITNESSES,
BRUCE CASTOR SAYS THEY'LL
CALL LOTS.
&gt;&gt; BRUCE CASTOR TELLING A
JOURNALIST THEY WILL CALL LOTS.
A REMINDER, THOUGH, THAT IT'S
NOT UP TO THEM. THEY CAN PROPOSE
WHO THEY'D LIKE TO HEAR FROM AND
PUT NAMES OUT THERE, BUT, RHONDA
COLVIN, IT'S ULTIMATELY UP TO
THE SENATORS IN THIS ROOM, THE
JURY TO DECIDE SPECIFICALLY
WHICH WITNESSES THEY DEEM
RELEVANT.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S CORRECT. AND ALSO
EARLIER WHEN RIGHT BEFORE THEY
TOOK THAT VOTE, IF YOU REMEMBER
MR. van der VEEN TALKED ABOUT
THIS IS NOT A CIVIC PROCESS, AND
HE WAS SORT OF ATTACKING THE
PROCESS OR EVEN THE IDEA OF
BRINGING IN WITNESSES, AND THAT
IS -- LIKE JAMES JUST POINTED
OUT, IT IS A REMINDER THAT THESE
ARE NOT CONSTITUTIONAL LAWYERS,
THEY AREN'T MEMBERS OF THE
SENATE, HAVEN'T BEEN BEFORE, AND
THEY ARE ATTACKING A PROCESS
THAT WAS SET UP BY THE SENATE.
YOU KNOW THIS IS NOT A CRIMINAL
PROCEEDING, AND IT DOESN'T GO BY
THE RULES OF SUCH. IT GOES BY
RULES THAT WERE AGREED UPON BY
BOTH PARTIES. THEY WERE VOTED ON
JUST THIS PAST MONDAY AND PASSED
AS THE RULES OF THIS
IMPEACHMENT. AND A PART OF THE
RULES WERE THAT THEY WOULD AFTER
THE OPENING ARGUMENTS CONCLUDED
WOULD VOTE ON WITNESSES. AND
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE SEEING RIGHT
NOW. BUT THAT DOES -- THAT DID
STAND OUT TO ME AS SORT OF
SEEING HIS FRAME OF MIND AND
THINKING THAT HE MAY NOT HAVE
ANTICIPATED JAMIE RASKIN'S MOVE
THERE, EVEN THOUGH THE DEFENSE
TEAM DID SAY THEY'D CALL
WITNESSES IF THAT'S WHAT THE
SENATE WANTED. BUT IT JUST
DIDN'T SEEM LIKE IT WAS PART OF
THEIR THINKING OF HOW THIS DAY
WOULD PLAY OUT TODAY. SO THEY
SAY THEY'RE GOING TO BRING LOTS
OF WITNESSES. THAT'S PROBABLY AN
ARGUMENT THAT YOU'RE GOING TO
HEAR A LOT BECAUSE THAT ALSO
APPEALS TO SOME OF THESE
SENATORS WHO WANT TO WRAP THIS
UP VERY QUICKLY. AND WE HEARD
ONE OF TRUMP'S LAWYERS EVEN SAY
WE'RE GOING TO WRAP UP SOON
BECAUSE WE WANT YOU ALL TO GET
BACK TO THE COVID RELIEF BILL.
AND SO I THINK THEY ARE GOING TO
USE THAT AS AN ARGUMENT, SAYING,
WELL, NOW IF WE'RE OPENING UP
WITNESSES, WE'RE JUST GOING TO
BRING A LOT THROUGH HERE AND
PROLONG THIS AND TRY TO TIRE OUT
THE SENATE BEFORE ANYTHING
HAPPENS. BUT IT DOES, AGAIN,
JUST UNDERSCORE THAT BOTH SIDES
WERE PROBABLY UNPREPARED FOR
WHAT JUST HAPPENED HERE TODAY.
&gt;&gt; I'M LOOKING AT OUR MONITOR TO
SEE WHO'S DOING WHAT AT THIS
MOMENT. JOURNALISTS ARE TAKING A
PHOTOGRAPH THERE. AND I SEE
FRANK THORP, ONE OF THE
JOURNALISTS WHO'S THERE IN THAT
SCRUM. YOU KNOW, RHONDA, IT'S
IMPORTANT TO POINT OUT THAT THE
HILL REPORTERS HAVE REALLY JUST
DONE AN IMPRESSIVE JOB OF
COLLABORATING AND WORKING
TOGETHER DURING THIS
UNPRECEDENTED, DIFFICULT TIME
COVERING CAPITOL HILL DURING
THESE COVID SAFETY PROTOCOLS.
AND SO WE ARE GETTING A LOT OF
GREAT POOLED INFORMATION AND
JOURNALISTS CYCLE THROUGH AND
TAKING TURNS OF BEING IN
IMPORTANT PLACES OF RELEVANCE,
BECAUSE WE CAN'T HAVE THE HUGE
SCRUMS OF REPORTERS THAT WE HAVE
ALL GROWN ACCUSTOMED TO ON
CAPITOL HILL BECAUSE OF SAFETY
ISSUES RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S RIGHT. IF THIS WAS A
PRE-COVID ERA, WOULD YOU SEE FAR
MORE REPORTERS IN THAT AREA
RIGHT NOW. IN FACT, A FEW YEARS
AGO, THE GALLERY PUT OUT
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT WE DON'T
GATHER TOO CLOSELY BECAUSE WE
COULD TRIP UP SENATORS, AND MANY
OF THEM ARE IN ELDER AGE, AND
THAT WAS A REAL THREAT. THERE
WERE SO MANY REPORTERS HERE ON
THE HILL DURING THE TRUMP ERA
THAT IT ENDANGERED A LOT OF
THESE MEMBERS BECAUSE THERE WERE
SO MANY. BUT NOW YOU REALLY
CANNOT GATHER IN MOST PLACES.
SCRUMS ARE DISCOURAGED. AND WE
DO RELY ON A ROTATING POOL
IN THERE AND GET SOME DETAILS
AND ABLE TO SHARE THAT WITH THE
REST OF THE WORLD, MUCH LIKE THE
CAMPAIGN SEASON AS WELL. WE HAD
A PRETTY BIG POOL SYSTEM OF
REPORTERS WHO COVERED THE BIDEN
CAMPAIGN AND WOULD TELL OTHERS
WHAT'S HAPPENING. SO THIS IS
ALMOST -- THIS IS ALSO
JOURNALISTIC HISTORY TOO, IF YOU
WANT TO LOOK AT IT THAT WAY,
THAT IN PRIOR TIMES, CERTAINLY,
THIS UNEXPECTED EVENT TODAY
WOULD HAVE BROUGHT SO MANY
REPORTERS TO THE SCENE. YOU'RE
SEEING THERE ON YOUR SCREEN,
RIGHT NOW IT IS A REMINDER THAT
WE ARE STILL IN A PANDEMIC.
&gt;&gt; SO, RHONDA, WE'RE WATCHING
SOME OF THE CLUSTERS IN THE
CHAMBER. AND AS YOU CAN SEE
MURKOWSKI, ALONG WITH DEBBIE
STABENOW AND MARK KELLY. WE'VE
SEEN THESE CLUSTERS GATHERING
AROUND. AND ONLY IF TO BE A FLY
ON THE WALL, RHONDA, TO HEAR
WHAT EVERYBODY IS SAYING, BUT WE
DON'T HAVE CONTROL OVER THOSE
CAMERAS, SO WE CAN ONLY SEE
THOSE WHO HAVE GONE INTO THE
LINE OF SIGHT THAT THIS CAMERA
IS CONTROLLED BY CONGRESS. YOU
CAN SEE RAND PAUL THERE CHOOSING
TO BE MASKLESS, DESPITE THE
DANGERS HE POSES TO OTHER HUMAN
BEINGS IN THAT CHIM BER. I ALSO
WANT TO POINT OUT AND BRING
JAMES INTO THE CONVERSATION. YOU
KNOW, WE DID SEE JASON MILLER
COME OUT AND SHOW SOMETHING TO
THOSE JOURNALISTS, YOU KNOW, A
FEW MOMENTS AGO.
&gt;&gt; AND, IN FACT, WE HAVE -- AS
YOU NOTED, FRANK THORP WAS
THERE. I SAW JOHN BRESNAHAN WAS
THERE. I WAS WATCHING TO SEE
WHAT THEY TWEETED OUT. WHAT IT
WAS WAS A PICTURE THAT JASON WAS
HOLDING. AND IT'S CLEARLY FOR
SHOW. AND IT WAS INTENTIONAL
THEY WANTED IT TO BE SEEN. BUT
IT SAYS WITNESS LIST 301 SO FAR.
AND THEY'RE JUST SCRATCHING OUT
POTENTIAL NAMES OF RANDOM PEOPLE
THAT THEY COULD CALL, PEOPLE WHO
WERE INVOLVED. IT REALLY SPEAKS
TO THEIR STRATEGY WHICH IS
THEY'RE THREATENING TO GUM UP
THE SENATE, DRAG THIS OUT AS
LONG AS POSSIBLE, DERAIL
PRESIDENT BIDEN'S FIRST 100
DAYS. AND JASON MILLER WAS ONE
OF THE PRESIDENT'S TOP
STRATEGISTS ON HIS CAMPAIGN.
IRONICALLY HE WAS ONE OF TED
CRUZ' TOP STRATEGISTS IN 2016
BEFORE CRUZ LOST THE PRIMARY TO
TRUMP, AND HE'S BEEN THERE DOING
SORT OF THE COMMUNICATIONS SIDE
OF THINGS. THERE WAS A PHOTO ON
THE FRONT PAGE OF OUR NEWSPAPER
TODAY, OR I GUESS INSIDE OUR
PAPER, OF MILLER APPLAUDING WHEN
TRUMP'S DEFENSE LAWYERS CAME IN
AFTER FINISHING THEIR CASE. SO
THE ARGUMENT FROM THE TRUMP TEAM
HERE SEEMS TO BE OPEN THE
PANDORA'S BOX, AND WE'RE GOING
TO MAKE THIS MISERABLE AND DRAG
IT OUT AS LONG AS POSSIBLE. BUT
WITH Z WHAT THAT REALLY
ILLUSTRATES, LIBBY, IS THEY'RE
AFRAID OF WITNESSES. THEY'RE
AFRAID OF OPENING THE DOOR TO
HAVE PEOPLE THAT COULD -- YOU
KNOW, THEY FEEL LIKE THEY HAVE
THE VOTES THAT THEY NEED, AND
HAVING PEOPLE COME IN AND START
TALKING ABOUT THE PRESIDENT'S
STATE OF MIND LEADING UP TO
JANUARY 6th AND ON THE DAY OF
CERTAINLY IS GOING TO BE
POLITICALLY AND LEGALLY
PROBLEMATIC FOR THE DEFENSE.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO NOW TO NATIONAL
REPORTER HANNAH JULE. SO,
HANNAH, THE SENATE STILL IN THIS
QUORUM CALL AS THEY SEE WHO
THOSE WITNESSES COULD BE AND THE
RULES OF THE TRIAL. IN THE
MEANTIME, CAN YOU TELL OUR
VIEWERS ABOUT CONGRESSWOMAN
JAMIE HERRERA BEUTLER WHO WAS
THE FIRST NAME MENTIONED BY LEAD
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER JAMIE RASKIN
THIS MORNING?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, LIBBY. SO JAMIE HERRERA
BEUTLER, I'M SURE MANY PEOPLE
ARE SCRAMBLING TO FIND OUT
EXACTLY WHO SHE IS. LET ME GIVE
YOU A LITTLE INTRODUCTION. SHE'S
A REPUBLICAN MEMBER OF THE
HOUSE. SHE REPRESENTS
WASHINGTON'S 3rd DISTRICT. SHE
WAS ELECTED TO THE HOUSE IN 2010
AS PART OF THAT TEA PARTY WAVE
OF REPUBLICANS ELECTED TO
CONGRESS. BUT SHE REPRESENTS A
PRETTY MODERATE DISTRICT. AND
MOST IMPORTANTLY, SHE VOTED YES
ON IMPEACHMENT. SHE WAS ONE OF
ONLY 10 REPUBLICANS WHO DID SO
ON THE HOUSE FLOOR THAT DAY SHE
SAID I'M NOT CHOOSING SIDES, I'M
CHOOSING TRUTHS. AND IN A
STATEMENT RELEASED JANUARY 12th,
SHE EXPLAINED THAT VOTE, SAYING,
QUOTE, THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES INCITED A RIOT,
AIMING TO HALT THE PEACEFUL
TRANSFER OF POWER FROM ONE
ADMINISTRATION TO THE NEXT. SHE
ALSO SAID HOUSE REPUBLICAN
LEADER KEVIN McCARTHY DESCRIBES
PLEADING WITH THE PRESIDENT TO
GO ON TELEVISION AND CALL FOR AN
END TO THE MAYHEM TO NO AVAIL.
SO THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS WANT
TO CALL HER AS A WITNESS AND TO
SUBPOENA HER NOTES REGARDING HER
COMMUNICATIONS WITH MINORITY
LEADER KEVIN McCARTHY ON THE DAY
OF THE RIOT. AND SHE HAS SAID
THAT SHE WAS BRIEFED ON THAT
CALL BETWEEN TRUMP AND McCARTHY
IN WHICH McCARTHY URGED THE
PRESIDENT TO CALL OFF THE
RIOTERS BUT SAYS THAT HE
REFUSED. LAST NIGHT BEUTLER ALSO
PUT OUT A STATEMENT URGING
REPUBLICANS TO SPEAK OUT AGAINST
THE FORMER PRESIDENT AND HIS
ROLE IN INCITING THE RIOT. SHE
SAID IN A STATEMENT LAST NIGHT
WHEN -- QUOTE, WHEN McCARTHY
FINALLY REACHED THE PRESIDENT ON
JANUARY 6th AND ASKED HIM TO
PUBLICLY AND FORCEFULLY CALL OFF
THE RIOT, THE PRESIDENT
INITIALLY REPEATED THE FALSEHOOD
THAT IT WAS ANTIFA THAT HAD
BREACHED THE CAPITOL. McCARTHY
REFUTED THAT AND TOLD THE
PRESIDENT THESE WERE TRUMP
SUPPORTERS, THAT'S WHEN,
ACCORDING TO McCARTHY, THE
PRESIDENT SAID, WELL, KEVIN, I
GUESS THESE PEOPLE ARE MORE
UPSET ABOUT THE ELECTION THAN
YOU ARE, THOSE ARE THE WORDS OF
JAMIE BEUTLER WHO IS THE FIRST
WITNESS WHO HAS BEEN -- WELL,
MAY BE CALLED IN THIS TRIAL. SO
THIS IS THE TESTIMONY AND THESE
ARE THE NOTES THAT THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE HOPING
TO INTRODUCE INTO THIS TRIAL,
EVIDENCE WHICH CERTAINLY SPEAKS
TO WHAT TRUMP WAS DOING AND
SAYING WHILE THE CAPITOL WAS
UNDER SIEGE.
&gt;&gt; THANKS SO MUCH, HANNAH
RICHARD JEWELL REPORTING FOR US.
RHONDA COLVIN, IF PEOPLE ARE
JUST TUNING IN, IF PEOPLE
THOUGHT THIS WAS A FOUR GONE
CONCLUSION AND PEOPLE ARE SAYING
WAIT A MINUTE. PEOPLE NEED TO
KNOW WHAT'S HAPPENING. CAN YOU
RECAP FOR US WHAT THE REASONING
IS AND GO A LITTLE DEEPER HERE
AFTER HANNAH'S COMMENTS ABOUT
WHY IMPEACHMENT MANAGER JAMIE
RASKIN WANTS TO HEAR FROM MISS
HERRERA BEUTLER, AND ALSO WHAT
KIND OF A SURPRISE THIS WAS FOR
MEMBERS OF THIS JURY?
&gt;&gt; YES. TO RECAP IF ANYONE
MISSED IT, TODAY WAS ABOUT
VOTING ON WHETHER OR NOT TO
SUBPOENA WITNESSES IN THIS
TRIAL. THIS WAS A PART OF THE
RULES SET UP BY THE SENATE THAT
AFTER THE Q&amp;A PROCESS THAT
HAPPENED YESTERDAY WHERE
SENATORS ASKED QUESTIONS TO BOTH
SIDES, THE DEFENSE AND THE
PROSECUTION, THEN THE NEXT STEP
IN THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL WAS TO
VOTE ON WHETHER OR NOT TO BRING
WITNESSES
INTO THIS. WE WE WERE TOLD THAT
BOTH SIDES REALLY DIDN'T HAVE
MUCH OF AN APPETITE TO PROLONG
THIS. THEY WERE WANTING THIS TO
MOVE FORWARD QUICKLY TODAY AND
HAVE A VOTE ON THE IMPEACHMENT.
HOWEVER, THAT IS NOT WHAT
HAPPENED. AND WE HAD A SERIES OF
REPUBLICANS, SOME OF THEM WE
EXPECTED -- BECAUSE THEY WERE
PART OF THAT GROUP THAT HAS NOT
CONFIRMED WHETHER OR NOT THEY'RE
GOING TO VOTE TO CONVICT OR
ACQUIT DONALD TRUMP, WITH THE
ADDITION ALSO OF LINDSAY GRAHAM
WHO'S, OF COURSE, BEEN HELPING
OUT THE TRUMP DEFENSE TEAM. SO
THAT GROUP OF REPUBLICANS VOTED
WITH DEMOCRATS IN BRINGING IN
WITNESSES INTO THIS TRIAL. AND
JAMIE RASKIN WHO IS THE LEAD
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER BROUGHT UP
TODAY THAT ONE CONGRESSWOMAN, AS
HANNAH POINTED OUT,
REPRESENTATIVE HERRERA BEUTLER
HAS NOTES AND DETAILS THAT ARE
RELEVANT TO THIS ISSUE THAT'S
REALLY AT THE CORE OF SOME OF
THESE REPUBLICANS WHO AREN'T AT
EASE WITH THIS IMPEACHMENT RIGHT
NOW. IT'S AT THE CORE OF THEIR
QUESTIONS. AND THAT IS WHAT DID
TRUMP KNOW, WHEN DID HE KNOW IT?
WHAT WAS HIS PROCESS OF MIND
WHEN HE LEARNED THAT VICE
PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE WAS IN
DANGER, HOW WAS HE REACTING TO
THAT, AND, OF COURSE, THERE IS
THIS CALL BETWEEN KEVIN McCARTHY
WHO IS THE HOUSE MINORITY LEADER
THAT HE HAD WITH TRUMP ASKING
HIM TO CALL THINGS OFF AND TRUMP
SEEMED NOT TO CARE. SO HERRERA
BEUTLER HAS DETAILS ABOUT THAT
CALL. AND IT'S ALSO JUST
AMPLIFYING SOME OF THESE
CONCERNS THAT THE SENATE
REPUBLICANS HAVE HAD THAT THEIR
QUESTIONS WERE NOT ANSWERED
YESTERDAY, THAT THEY WANTED TO
KNOW SPECIFICALLY WITH DETAIL
HOW MUCH TRUMP KNEW ABOUT THE
RIOT WHEN IT WAS HAPPENING, THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS HAVE BEEN
ARGUING THAT HE ONLY NEEDED TO
TURN ON THE TV OR THE RADIO TO
KNOW EXACTLY WHAT ALL OF THE
REST OF AMERICA WAS WATCHING,
THAT THE CAPITOL WAS DEALING
WITH AN INSURRECTION, AND THAT
IT WAS UNDER SIEGE, AND
APPARENTLY THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT IS REALLY, REALLY TROUBLING
TO SENATORS LIKE MITT ROMNEY,
LISA MURKOWSKI, SENATOR COLLINS,
THEY ARE TROUBLED THAT THE
FORMER PRESIDENT DID NOT REACT
QUICKLY WHEN HE LEARNED THAT
VICE PRESIDENT PENCE AND THE
REST OF THEM WERE
ALL IN DANGER.
&gt;&gt; WE'RE SEEING MAJORITY LEADER
CHUCK SCHUMER THERE AT THE
PODIUM, AND WE'RE SEEING
SENATORS TAKE THEIR SEATS. SO
LET'S SEE WHAT WE ARE ABOUT TO
LEARN. THIS IS LIVE COVERAGE
FROM "THE WASHINGTON POST."
LET'S GO TO THE SENATE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; I ASK YOU NOW TO CONSENT TO
INITIATE THE QUORUM CALL.
&gt;&gt; ANY OBJECTIONS?
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, AS I
UNDERSTAND IT THERE ARE
DISCUSSIONS UNDER WAY, SO I ASK
UNANIMOUS CONSENT THAT THE
SENATE RECESS UNTIL 12:30 P.M.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE OBJECTION? HEARING
NONE, WE STAND IN RECESS UNTIL
12:30.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU,
MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; OKAY. WE HAVE A RECESS HERE
FOR ABOUT 45 MINUTES. IF YOU'RE
JUST TUNING IN, THE IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL OF DONALD TRUMP TOOK A
DRAMATIC TURN THIS MORNING AS
THE SENATE VOTED TO CALL
WITNESSES AND SUBPOENA
DOCUMENTS. SO WE'RE IN THIS
BREAK RIGHT NOW. BUT HERE'S
WHAT'S HAPPENED TODAY. 55
SENATORS VOTED YES TO WITNESSES,
AND THAT INCLUDED FIVE
REPUBLICANS. HERE'S WHO THEY
WERE, REPUBLICAN SENATORS SUSAN
COLLINS OF MAINE, LISA MURKOWSKI
OF ALASKA, MITT ROMNEY OF UTAH,
ALSO BEN SASSE OF NEBRASKA VOTED
IN FAVOR OF WITNESSES. NOW,
BEFORE THE VOTE WAS FINALIZED,
ANOTHER SENATOR JOINED THEM.
THAT WAS LINDSAY GRAHAM OF SOUTH
CAROLINA THAT BROUGHT THAT TOTAL
TO 55-45. AND THAT HAS THROWN
THE REST OF THE TRIAL TIMING IN
FLUX. RHONDA COLVIN WAS JUST
TALKING TO US ABOUT HOW THE
ANTICIPATION THIS WAS GET
WRAPPED UP TODAY. RHONDA, THE
BIG NEWS PRIOR TO THIS WAS
MINORITY LEADER MITCH McCONNELL
SENT COLLEAGUES A LETTER SAYING
HE PLANS TO VOTE TO ACQUIT
DONALD TRUMP. AND THAT WAS A
SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENT BECAUSE
HE HADN'T COMMITTED TO THAT, AND
IT SENT, YOU KNOW, AN INDICATION
TO ALL OF HIS COLLEAGUES THAT
THERE WOULD NOT BE ANY WAY,
REALLY, FRANKLY, THAT
REPUBLICANS -- ENOUGH
REPUBLICANS WOULD BE SIDING WITH
DEMOCRATS TO CONVICT THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
LET'S TALK ABOUT THAT AND THEN
THIS POTENTIAL GAME CHANGER THAT
IS GOING TO THROW EVERYTHING UP
IN THE AIR.
&gt;&gt; YEAH. AND THE MINORITY
LEADER'S DECISION TO GO FOR AN
ACQUITTAL MAY HAVE ALSO SET THE
TONE TOO FOR THIS UNANTICIPATED
MOMENT HERE THAT BECAUSE HE CAME
OUT TODAY, THIS MOMENT, MOMENTS
BEFORE THEY GAVELED IN TODAY,
SAYING THAT HE WAS GOING TO VOTE
TO ACQUIT, THAT ALMOST SIGNALED
THAT THIS WOULD KIND OF GO TO A
MORE SPEEDY PROCESS, THAT IT
WOULD QUICKLY CULMINATE TO A
VOTE TODAY. BUT, OF COURSE, THAT
IS NOT WHAT HAPPENED. WHAT'S
INTERESTING ABOUT MITCH
McCONNELL'S DECISION IS IT'S NOT
HIGHLY SURPRISING. HOWEVER, HE
ABOUT FOUR WEEKS AGO WAS ON THE
SENATE FLOOR, IT WAS THE DAY
BEFORE BIDEN'S INAUGURATION, AND
HE SAID THE WORDS THAT TRUMP
PROVOKED THE MOB, HE FED THEM
LIES AND THAT WORDS MATTER. THAT
WHOLE THING IS WHAT THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS HAVE BEEN
ARGUING THIS WHOLE WEEK IS THAT
TRUMP PROVOKED THIS MOB. AND
THOSE WERE THE WORDS THAT MITCH
McCONNELL USED. SO WE WERE
LOOKING CLOSELY AT WHAT MITCH
McCONNELL'S DECISION MAKING WAS
AS WE MOVED TOWARD A VOTE ON
ACQUITTAL OR CONVICTION, AND IT
JUST -- IT SHOWS YOU HOW PERHAPS
MINDS HAVEN'T BEEN MADE UP FOR A
WHILE. THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE WHO
ARE STILL THINKING THIS THROUGH.
WE ALSO KNOW THAT MITCH
McCONNELL THROUGHOUT THIS WHOLE
PROCESS HAS SAID THAT HE HAS NOT
TOLD HIS CAUCUS WHAT TO DO. HE
IS LEAVING EVERYONE'S DECISION
UP TO THEM. THAT'S A LITTLE
DIFFERENT FROM THE SIGNALS THAT
HE SENT IN THE LAST IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL. HE WANTED IT TO GO
QUICKLY AND SMOOTHLY WITHOUT
WITNESSES. THAT WAS ONE OF THE
AREAS AND THE STICKING POINTS OF
THE LAST IMPEACHMENT IS THAT THE
DEMOCRATS WERE CALLING FOR
WITNESSES. EVERYDAY CHUCK
SCHUMER HELD A PRESS BRIEFING
BEFORE THE TRIAL BEGAN. I WAS
THERE. AND HE WAS CALLING FOR
WITNESSES, AND MITCH McCONNELL
DID NOT WANT THAT TO HAPPEN AND
GOT HIS CAUCUS ALL ON THE SAME
PAGE ABOUT A SPEEDY TRIAL LAST
TIME. BUT THIS TIME WE WERE
SEEING SOME DIFFERENT SIGNALS
FROM MITCH McCONNELL WHERE HE
DID ADMIT AND SAID VERY
EXPLICITLY THAT THE FORMER
PRESIDENT'S WORDS DID MATTER,
AND THAT WAS IN A FLOOR SPEECH
ON THE SENATE WHICH IS IN
RECORD. SO, OF COURSE TODAY,
THOUGH, HE HAS DECIDED THAT HE
WILL VOTE TO ACQUIT. AGAIN,
THOUGH, EVEN THOUGH HE HAS SAID
THAT NOW, WE ARE STILL WAITING
FOR ALL OF THESE DETAILS ABOUT
THE REST OF THIS TRIAL TO FIRM
UP. WE DON'T KNOW REALLY THE
NEXT STEPS YET. SO DID
EVERYTHING CHANGE, DID SOME
CHANGE? WE DON'T KNOW. WE'RE
WAITING TO SEE WHAT'S NEXT WITH
THE WITNESSES, WHO THESE
WITNESSES ARE AND THE REAL
IMPORTANT TAKEAWAY FROM THIS
MOMENT TODAY THAT WE'RE WAITING
ON IS THAT THE SENATE WILL BE
CHOOSING THESE WITNESSES. SO
EVEN THOUGH THE DEFENSE IS
SAYING THEY'RE GOING TO BRING
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE IN, THEY
REALLY CAN'T DO THAT. IT'S GOING
TO HAVE TO BE AGREED UPON WHO
THESE WITNESSES ARE. SO WE'RE
JUST WAITING ON NEXT STEPS. WE
OF COURSE NOW HAVE THIS LONG
BREAK SO EVERYONE CAN SORT OF
FIGURE OUT WHERE THEY'RE GOING.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO JAMES HOMAN. WE
KNOW THAT JASON MILLER FLASHED
THAT LIST OF, YOU KNOW, SUPPOSED
WITNESSES THEY WANT TO CALL
WHICH WE SAW HIM DO IN GREAT
SHOWY FASHION TO THE
JOURNALISTS. WASN'T JUST SORT OF
LIKE, YOU KNOW, CAUGHT ON HOT
MIC SORT OF MOMENT, JAMES. 300
SOME WITNESSES SO FAR IS WHAT
THEY'RE CONSIDERING. BUT RHONDA
REMINDED US THAT IT'S NOT UP TO
THEM. IT'S NOT UP TO TRUMP'S
TEAM TO ULTIMATELY DECIDE WHICH
WITNESSES ARE CALLED AND
WHETHER, YOU KNOW, THEY'RE
DELIVERED. YOU CAN SEE THAT IN
JASON MILLER'S HAND RIGHT THERE.
&gt;&gt; AND IF YOU ZOOM IN, LIBBY,
AND YOU LOOK AT THE NAMES THERE,
THAT WAS ENTIRELY FOR SHOW. THAT
LIST -- YOU KNOW, THE TOP IS
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE NANCY
PELOSI, VICE PRESIDENT KAMALA
HARRIS, ALL THE MEMBERS -- THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE
LISTED THERE, ALL THE DEMOCRATIC
MEMBERS OF THE SENATE ARE
LISTED. THIS ISN'T A SERIOUS
LIST OF WITNESSES THAT WOULD
ACTUALLY ILLUMINATE FACTS. THIS
IS AN EFFORT TO TRY TO BULLY OR
INTIMIDATE DEMOCRATS INTO
BACKING DOWN AND NOT OPENING THE
PANDORA'S BOX. YOU HAVE
REPUBLICAN SENATORS WHO ARE ON
THE HILL RIGHT NOW SAYING, WELL,
IF YOU CALL A SINGLE WITNESS,
THIS IS GOING TO DRAG ON FOR
MONTHS AND MONTHS. IN FACT,
THERE'S A LONG HISTORY OF HAVING
JUDICIAL IMPEACHMENT TRIALS
SIMULTANEOUS TO OTHER
LEGISLATION PASSING. ALL OF
THIS, THOUGH, IS BEING
NEGOTIATED. THE SENATE
ULTIMATELY IS A BODY THAT
REQUIRES A LOT OF CONSENT FOR
THINGS TO MOVE FORWARD, A LOT OF
THINGS CAN GET HELD UP BY A
SINGLE SENATOR OBJECTING WHICH
IS WHY OFTEN YOU DO HAVE DEALS
THAT ARE WORKED OUT BETWEEN THE
DEMOCRATIC AND REPUBLICAN
LEADERS. THAT'S CERTAINLY WHAT
THEY'RE GOING TO TRY TO DO, I
ASSUME, AND THEY HOPE CAN COME
OUT AT 12:30 AND ANNOUNCE SOME
KIND OF AGREEMENT. WE DO KNOW
THAT THE PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE
TEAM WAS TOTALLY CAUGHT OFF
GUARD. THEY THOUGHT THIS WAS
GOING TO BE WRAPPED UP BY
LUNCHTIME. THEY BELIEVED THAT
THEY WOULD BE ABLE TO KIND OF
JUST GET THIS OVER WITH, AND
THEY HAD THEIR ONE-HOUR CLOSING
ARGUMENT READY TO GO. SO THEY'VE
BEEN CAUGHT OFF GUARD. REMEMBER,
THE TRUMP LAWYERS DON'T KNOW
EACH OTHER WELL. THEY DON'T HAVE
A HISTORY OF WORKING TOGETHER.
THEY DON'T HAVE A RELATIONSHIP
WITH THEIR CLIENT, DONALD TRUMP,
AND ONE OF THE LAWYERS, DOUG
SCHOEN OR DAVID SCHOEN IS NOT
THERE TODAY BECAUSE IT'S THE
JEWISH SABBATH. SO HE LEFT
BEFORE 5:00 YESTERDAY AND ISN'T
AROUND FOR THEM TO STRATEGIZE.
SO THE SENATE IS STILL GOING TO
HAVE TO VOTE ON WHICH SPECIFIC
WITNESSES TO CALL. CLEARLY THERE
WERE 55 VOTES FOR JAMIE HERRERA
BEUTLER. WE STILL DON'T KNOW HOW
EASY SHE WILL BE TO GET ON A
ZOOM DEPOSITION. WE OBVIOUSLY
HAVE TALKED ABOUT HER PRESS
RELEASE, BUT SHE ALSO SAID THERE
COULD BE OTHER PATRIOTS WHO
MIGHT COME FORWARD AND PERHAPS
SOME OF THE CONVERSATIONS BEHIND
THE SCENES ARE WHETHER SOME OF
THOSE PEOPLE MIGHT BE WILLING TO
TESTIFY.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, LET'S TALK NOW ABOUT
THE TIMING OF THIS. AND AS YOU
SAID, IT'S UNKNOWN IF -- NOW,
THIS IS A LOT OF IFS BECAUSE WE
HAVE TO GO THROUGH THE
PROCEDURAL STEPS TO FIND OUT
WHAT WITNESSES THEY WANT TO
CALL, IF THEY HAVE THE MAJORITY
OF VOTES TO CALL THEM. SO, IF,
FOR EXAMPLE, CONGRESSMAN HERRERA
BEUTLER IS SUBPOENAED, AND THEY
CAN HAVE HER APPEAR BY ZOOM, HOW
LONG COULD THIS GO? POTENTIALLY
WE COULD WRAP THIS UP IN THE
NEXT COUPLE OF DAYS, OR,
FRANKLY, THIS COULD GO ON A LOT
LONGER AS THE SENATE TRIES TO
TURN ITS ATTENTION BACK TO COVID
RELIEF.
&gt;&gt; YEAH. THERE ARE REQUIREMENTS
ONCE YOU START AN IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL. YOU KNOW, THEY CAN
DEFINITELY STILL DO SENATE
BUSINESS, AND, IN FACT, WE'VE
SEEN THAT THE LAST COUPLE OF
DAYS, RIGHT? AT THE END OF THE
DAY SCHUMER HAS SAID, WELL, YOU
KNOW, I MAKE A MOTION FOR THE
SENATE TO BE IN REGULAR BUSINESS
FROM 11:00 TO 12:00 SO THESE
COMMITTEES CAN DO THEIR WORK AND
WE CAN ADVANCE THIS AND THAT,
AND THERE'S BEEN UNANIMOUS
CONSENT. THAT WAS PART OF THE
DEAL THAT WAS REACHED OUT IN
ADVANCE WITH McCOME AND SCHUMER.
SOME OF THE FRUSTRATION ON THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE IS THEY FEEL
LIKE THEY WERE BLINDSIDED. THE
TRUTH, AS PAUL KANE WAS TELLING
US A FEW MINUTES AGO THAT
DEMOCRATIC SENATORS WERE
BLINDSIDED AS WELL. SO
REPUBLICANS FELT THEY HAD THIS
DEAL TO SORT OF GET THIS OVER
WITH TODAY AND THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS SAYING, NO,
IF YOU'RE GOING TO SAY WE HAVE A
HALF-BAKED CASE, WE'RE GOING TO
FULLY BAKE OUR CASE. SO THAT IS
PART OF THE QUESTION IS THAT IF
ALL OF A SUDDEN ONE SIDE HAS AN
INCENTIVE TO DRAG THIS OUT, WILL
THEY ACTUALLY TRY TO DRAG IT
OUT? THERE IS A SCENARIO,
FRANKLY, WHERE THIS STILL WRAPS
UP ON MONDAY, OR EVEN IN THEORY
THIS COULD WRAP UP TODAY, THAT
SEEMS VERY UNLIKELY. BUT YOU
COULD HAVE A THEORY OF -- A
SCENARIO WHERE THEY VOTE TO CALL
HERRERA BEUTLER, AND THAT'S ALL,
AND SHE DOES HER ZOOM SUBPOENA
TESTIMONY THIS AFTERNOON, AND,
YOU KNOW, THEY COME BACK
TOMORROW OR ON PRESIDENTS' DAY
AND THEN HAVING THE:ES ARMS, AND
THEN YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE THE
PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE TEAM SAY
WHAT SHE SAID IS IRRELEVANT
BECAUSE OF WHAT THE PRESIDENT
DID AFTER THE RIOT WAS INCITED
IS IRRELEVANT, AND THEN YOU KIND
OF GET BACK TO ESSENTIALLY WHERE
WE WERE THIS MORNING. THAT ALL
IS SORT OF UNPREDICTABLE. IT IS
HARD TO IMAGINE IF YOU CALL ONE
WITNESS THAT YOU JUST REALLY
STICK WITH ONE WITNESS. BUT,
AGAIN, IT'S UP TO THE SENATE. SO
IF DEMOCRATS DON'T WANT MORE
THAN ONE, THERE DOESN'T HAVE TO
BE MORE THAN ONE.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO NOW TO CAPITOL HILL
REPORTER WHO'S JOINING US FROM
THE SENATE GALLERY. HELLO. SO,
YOU KNOW, PAUL KANE WAS POINTING
OUT TO US TODAY THAT DEMOCRATIC
SENATORS HEADING INTO THE TRIAL
WERE TALKING ABOUT AND SAYING
THEY DID NOT SEE A NEED TO CALL
WITNESSES WHICH GETS AT THEIR
STATE OF MIND AND THEIR
EXPECTATION, FRANKLY, OF WHAT
WAS ABOUT TO HAPPEN.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT. I THINK WHAT WE SAW
HAPPEN THIS MORNING WAS A
SURPRISE. SENATE DEMOCRATS DID
NOT SOUND LIKE FOR THE LAST FEW
DAYS THAT THEY WERE INTERESTED
IN HAVING THE WITNESS PANDORA'S
BOX BE OPENED. EVERYONE WAS
EXPECTING WHEN WE LEFT LAST
NIGHT THAT WE WOULD COME BACK AT
10:00 A.M., AND WE WOULD BE OUT
BY THE MIDDLE OF THE AFTERNOON.
AND NOW THAT'S CLEARLY NOT
HAPPENING. BUT OFFICIALLY NO ONE
HAS EVER FIRMLY COMPLETELY
CLOSED THE DOOR ON THE WITNESS
QUESTION. THE SENATE DEMOCRATS
KEPT PITCHING THAT TO THE HOUSE
MANAGERS. THE HOUSE MANAGERS
KEPT SAYING TBD, TBD, WE DON'T
KNOW. TECHNICALLY SPEAKING, THIS
IS -- WHAT JAMES IS SAYING. THIS
IS UP TO THE SENATE. THE SENATE
HAS TO BE THE ONE, THE BODY THAT
VOTES TO APPROVE ANY OF THE
SUBPOENAS. NOW WE HAVE THIS
GENERAL QUESTION ABOUT DO WE
WANT ANSWERS ANSWERED IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE, OKAY. IT MEANS
NOTHING. IT'S THEORETICAL UNTIL
YOU GET INTO THE SPECIFIC PEOPLE
THAT WOULD HAVE THE SUBSEQUENT
MOTIONS VOTED ON. AND NOW THE
PROBLEM IS, THOUGH, THAT, YOU
KNOW, IF YOU DO NOTHING
FOLLOWING THIS, THEN WHAT WAS
THAT VOTE THAT WE JUST WATCHED
THIS MORNING? IS IT JUST TO MAKE
A STATEMENT THAT PEOPLE WOULD
LIKE EMOTIONALLY TO HAVE
WITNESSES, THAT WE DON'T
ACTUALLY GO AFTER ANY WITNESSES?
SO IT SEEMS LIKE IF YOU JUST
LEAVE IT THERE, THAT'S WEIRD,
RIGHT? BUT IF YOU KEEP GOING, AS
JAMES SAID, IT'S DIFFICULT TO
JUST STOP AT ONE, UNLESS THERE'S
ONE ALL-ENCOMPASSING WITNESS
THAT EVERYONE CAN AGREE UPON. SO
THE BALANCING ACT GOING FORWARD
IS EXTREMELY DELICATE, BOTH
BETWEEN THE TWO SIDES AND ALSO
WITHIN EACH PARTY. REMEMBER, THE
HOUSE MANAGERS DO SEEM TO WANT
THESE WITNESSES. THEY WANTED TO
CALL ON THE PRESIDENT WHO SAID
HE REFUSED, AND IT'S THE SENATE
DEMOCRATS WHO HAVE BEEN WISHY
WASHY ABOUT THIS AND CHANGED
THEIR POSITION ABOUT WHAT THEY
WERE SAYING A FEW DAYS AGO AND
THEY VOTED TODAY, AND, YES, A
HANDFUL OF REPUBLICANS TOO. BUT
IF YOU HAVE MOTIONS BROUGHT BY
THE MANAGERS WHO ARE THEN VOTED
DOWN BY SENATE DEMOCRATS, THAT'S
GOING TO CREATE TENSIONS WITHIN
THE PARTY AS WELL, UNLESS THE
REQUESTS ARE SO OUTLANDISH THAT,
YOU KNOW, IT DOESN'T MAKE ANY
SENSE --
&gt;&gt; COULD THERE BE THAT
COORDINATION BECAUSE ULTIMATELY
THESE ARE REPUBLICANS, RIGHT?
LISA MURKOWSKI, SUSAN COLLINS,
THEY ARE REPUBLICANS.
&gt;&gt; YES.
&gt;&gt; SO ARE THEY GOING TO COME TO
AN AGREEMENT WITH THEIR CAUCUS
AND SAY, LOOK, YOU KNOW, YES, I
WILL ALSO SIDE WITH YOU TO HEAR
FROM A WITNESS THAT COULD EITHER
PROVE TO BE EXCULPATORY TO THE
PRESIDENT OR CHANGES THE TONE OR
TENOR OF THE CONVERSATION. I
GUESS THE QUESTION IS, THOUGH,
THEY'VE GOTTA HAVE SOME DEMOCRAT
ON BOARD, THOUGH, RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; RIGHT. IN ORDER TO APPROVE
ANY OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
WITNESSES, THEY HAVE TO HAVE AT
LEAST ONE DEMOCRAT ON BOARD
BECAUSE IF YOU END UP AT 50/50,
THE TIE GOES TO THE DEMOCRATS
BECAUSE HARRIS CASTS THE
TIEBREAKING VOTE. SO THE
REPUBLICANS DO NEED 51. THEY
NEED TO SWAY AT LEAST ONE
DEMOCRAT. AND, LOOK, THERE ARE
BIPARTISAN CONVERSATIONS
HAPPENING ALL OVER THE FLOOR
RIGHT NOW. WE SAW JOE MANCHIN
ACTUALLY GO INTO THE GOP COKE
ROOM TO HAVE A CHAT WITH THEM AT
ONE POINT DURING THIS BREAK
BEFORE THEY ACTUALLY, YOU KNOW,
FORMALLY SAID THEY WEREN'T GOING
TO RECONVENE UNTIL 12:30. THE
SITUATION, THOUGH, THAT YOU HAVE
IS -- I THINK THAT YOU NEED THAT
PARODY TO GET ONE OF THE
MODERATE DEMOCRATS ON BOARD TO
JOIN THE REPUBLICANS AND TO KEEP
THE REPUBLICANS ON BOARD WITH
THE DEMOCRATS, YOU WOULD NEED TO
HAVE THAT NOTION OF PARODY. BUT
IF YOU DON'T CARE ABOUT THAT
ANYMORE, AND YOU CAN KEEP THE
DEMOCRATS TOGETHER AS A BLOC,
TECHNICALLY SPEAKING, YOU COULD
JUST MAKE THIS GO AS LONG AS YOU
-- BECAUSE THE SENATE HAS TO BE
THE APPROVING BODY, RIGHT? SO
YOU COULD JUST TECHNICALLY HAVE
THE DEMOCRATS ALL, IF THIS THEY
CAN STICK TOGETHER PLUS ONE
APPROVE THE WITNESSES THEY WANT
TO APPROVE. THE TRUMP LAWYERS
WILL KEEP MAKING THE MOTIONS,
THEY WILL KEEP GETTING SHUT DOWN
PRESUMABLY, IF BOTH PARTIES
STICK TOGETHER, BUT THEN YOU
LOSE POTENTIALLY YOUR HIGH
GROUND OF HAVING THIS BE A
BIPARTISAN PROCESS. AND, LOOK,
THIS TIME -- THIS TRIAL, THERE
ARE MORE REPUBLICAN VOTES IN
PLAY THAN THERE WAS THE FIRST
TIME THAT TRUMP WAS UP ON
IMPEACHMENT CHARGES. AND I DON'T
KNOW THAT THAT CHANGES. BUT, YOU
KNOW, THIS IS NOT A PURE
COURTROOM WHERE NOTHING IS --
NOTHING BUT THE FACTS ARE
SUPPOSED TO COME INTO PLAY,
LIKE, IF THIS TOOK WEEKS OR
MORE, YOU CAN WEAR AT THE
PATIENCE OF SENATORS, AND THEY
CAN HAVE THAT FACTOR INTO THE
DECISION MAKING TOO. SO THERE'S
A LOT OF MOVING PARTS HERE. AND
SO THEY HAVE TO -- IT'S GOING TO
BE VERY INTERESTING TO SEE WHAT
THEY ANNOUNCE AFTER 12:30, AND
IF IT DOES INCLUDE WITNESSES,
WHO IS AT THE TOP OF THOSE LISTS
BECAUSE THAT'S GOING TO BE THE
INDICATOR ALSO OF WHAT TYPE OF
CASE -- ADDITIONAL CASE EACH
SIDE IS GOING TO PUT ON, AND IF
IT'S IN ALL SERIOUS NE AND THESE
ARE ALL LEGITIMATE WITNESSES
THAT COULD ACTUALLY SWAY A
DEMOCRAT TO BACK THE TRUMP
WITNESS OR A REPUBLICAN TO BACK,
YOU KNOW, THE HOUSE MANAGERS'
WITNESS, THAT'S GOING TO BE
REALLY IMPORTANT IN DETERMINING
HOW LONG
THIS GOES, HOW PARTISANLY
ACRIMONIOUS IT IS WELL.
&gt;&gt; LET'S JUST TALK THROUGH WHAT
SOME OF THESE MODERATE
REPUBLICANS -- I'M CALLING THEM
MODERATES BECAUSE I'M THINKING
OF SUSAN COLLINS AND MITT
ROMNEY, BUT WE'VE ALSO GOT BILL
CASSIDY ON THAT LIST, BILL
CASSIDY WHO'S NOT REALLY A
MODERATE.
&gt;&gt; NOT REALLY A MODERATE.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT. SO THESE REPUBLICANS
WHO HAVE SO FAR VOTED THAT THIS
IS CONSTITUTIONAL TO MOVE
FORWARD, WHAT
THAT THE DRVES TEAM JUST HAS NOT
BEEN ABLE TO OR BEEN WILLING TO
ANSWER AT THIS POINT?
&gt;&gt; OKAY. SO I'M GOING TO GO BACK
TO MY NOTES FROM YESTERDAY
BECAUSE I COVERED IT OVER THE
WEEK.
&gt;&gt; THE FIRST PLACE SOME OF THEM
WANT
MORE INFORMATION. I HOPE YOU CAN
UNDERSTAND ME CLEAR ENOUGH. I'M
WEARING MULTIPLE MASKS AND I
KNOW IT IS A LITTLE BIT MUFFLED
SOUND EVEN TO MY EARS SO MY
APOLOGIES. BUT THEY ASKED THE
FIRST
MODERATE QUESTION ON THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE AND THEY WANTED
MORE INFORMATION ABOUT EXACTLY
WHEN PRESIDENT TRUMP KNEW THAT
THE CAPITAL HAD BEEN BREACHED SO
THEY COULD PUT ALL OF HIS
ACTIONS
AND STATEMENTS INTO THE CONTEXT
AND FRANKLY NOBODY COULD ANSWER
THAT
WITH SPECIFICITY. THE SOLE
PROPRIETOR OF THAT WAS TRUMP AND
YOU DON'T PUT
HIM UP FOR TESTIMONY. SO THAT
LEFT EVERYBODY WITH A
UNSATISFIED FEELING. LATER ON,
ROMNEY
AND COLLINS IF THE VICE
PRESIDENT WAS AWARE THAT HE HAD
BEEN REMOVED FROM THE CHAMBER
WHEN HE TWEETED ABOUT PENCE. AND
AGAIN, THE ANSWERS HAD TO REST
ON CONJECTURE BECAUSE THE HOUSE
DIDN'T REALLY PROVE THEIR CASE
AND THEY SAID WE CAN'T NOTE THAT
IT
WAS BUT THEY CAN'T SAY AGAIN
WITH SPECIFICITY THAT THEY CAN
SHOW
UP TO TESTIFY. THE
BACK-AND-FORTH IS HAPPENING.
THERE'S A LOT OF INFORMATION
THAT HAS BEEN AT THIS TRIAL BUT
A LOT OF IT WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF SECURITY CAMERA FOOTAGE, A
LOT OF IT WAS IN THE PUBLIC
DOMAIN ALREADY THAT HAD TO BE
JUST CURATED INTO THE CASES THAT
EACH SIDE MADE. THERE'S NOT A
LOT OF NEWLY UNEARTHED
TESTIMONY. THERE'S BEEN NO
TESTIMONY BEFORE THE TRIAL. IT
HAS BEEN
GOING ON. IF IT HASN'T BEEN
ADDED TO THE PRESS OR VIA SOCIAL
MEDIA IT DOESN'T EXIST
RIGHT NOW.
BUT TO KIND OF BOLSTER THEIR
CASE AND ALMOST TO GET THIS
QUESTION ANSWERED IN OPEN FORUM
MAY BE TO GET THE MORE SUPPORT
FROM THEIR PEERS THAN YOU WANT
TO CONNECT THESE DOTS THAT ARE
LEFT HANGING. AND FRANKLY NOBODY
CAN DO
IT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH. REALLY
APPRECIATE YOUR TIME. WE CAN
HEAR YOU PERFECTLY SO YOU ARE
DOING A GREAT
JOB.
&gt;&gt;
THEY ALREADY HAVE FLIGHTS BOOKED
HOME, SO, WE WERE ANTICIPATING
THIS COULD WRAP UP TODAY AS WERE
THEY. LET'S GO TO
TOM HAMBURGER. YOU KNOW THIS
AIN'T OVER TILL IT'S OVER,
RIGHT? THINGS ARE STILL
IN FLUX.
WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT THE DEFENSE
TEAM AND WHAT THEY ARE GOING TO
HAVE TO FIGURE
OUT NEXT?
&gt;&gt; AS YOU JUST NOTED AND OUR
COLLEAGUES HAVE REPORTED, THE
DEFENSE TEAM WAS SURPRISED
THIS MORNING BY THIS AS INDEED
WERE SO MANY OF US IN WASHINGTON
BY THIS TURN OF EVENTS
AND SO JASON
MILLER DISTRIBUTED THIS DAUNTING
LIST OF WITNESSES THAT THEY
WOULD LIKE
TO CALL IT IS THE DEFENSIVE
RESPONSE IT SEEMS TO BE IF YOU
WANT TO
CALL WITNESSES MANAGER KURT
MANAGER RASKIN WE HAVE QUITE A
LONG LIST TO COUNTER AND THIS
WILL TURN INTO AN EMBARRASSING
AND DIFFICULT MASS. THAT SEEMS
TO BE THE TACTICAL RESPONSE,
THAT THE BOOK THE DIFFICULTY AS
YOU KNOW FOR THE REPUBLICANS IS
THAT THEY
DON'T HAVE, THEY MAY NOT HAVE
THE VOTES IN THE SENATE TO
DETERMINE WHAT THE RULES WILL BE
FOR CALLING WITNESSES AND INDEED
MAY NOT BE ABLE TO HAVE
RULES APPLY APPROVED THAT WOULD
INCLUDE THEM TO PROMOTE
THE WITNESSES.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS A GOOD POINT, YOU
KNOW, THIS IS A POLITICAL
ENDEAVOR AND SO
OF COURSE THERE'S POLITICS THAT
ARE PLAYED OUT ON BOTH SIDES OF
THE AISLE BUT THE MORE THE
REPUBLICANS CAN TRY TO SHOW A
FAN'S ARGUMENT AND SAY IF THEY
GET A WITNESS, WE CAN
WITNESS TOO, IT GOES TO HOW THEY
ARE CHARACTERIZING AND COLORING
THIS PROCESS TO THE AMERICAN
PUBLIC.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT
IS RIGHT. AND YOU ARE SO
ABSOLUTELY CORRECT TO CALL THIS
A POLITICAL PRODUCT. IT DIFFERS
IN SO MANY WAYS FROM THE RULES,
TRADITIONS AND NORMS OF A COURT
PROCEEDING. AND SO THAT IS PART
OF WHAT WE ARE SEEING
PLAYING OUT
. IT IS THE POLITICS OF HOW TO
PURSUE THIS QUESTION OF DONALD
TRUMP'S CULPABILITY,
RESPONSIBILITY, WAS HE, AS THE
DEMOCRATIC MANAGERS HAVE CHARGED
THE PERSON
WHO INCITED WHO LIT THE FUSE OF
THE JANUARY 6th ASSAULT ON THE
CAPITAL OR NOT? AND THEY
BELIEVED THEY
HAVE FOUND DURING THE 11th HOUR
MEETING LAST NIGHT, SOME
POTENTIALLY COMPELLING
EVIDENCE REGARDING THE CALL
BETWEEN THE PRESIDENT AND
REPRESENTATIVE McCARTHY AND SO
THEY'VE DECIDED NOW TO OPEN UP
THIS
PANDORA'S BOX OF WITNESSES AND
SELECTION OF WITNESSES AND THEY
ARE DOING SO, AS YOU
POINT OUT, THIS IS A POLITICALLY
VOLATILE QUESTION AND THE MOVE
BY HOUSE MANAGERS SEEMS TO RUN
CONTRARY TO THE CAUTIONS THEY
RECEIVED FROM SENATE LEADERSHIP,
THE DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP AND
EVEN FROM OUR REPORTING SOME OF
THE CAUTIONS RECEIVED FROM THE
BIDEN WHITE HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; JUST TWO DAYS
AGO,, YOUR COLLEAGUES WERE
REPORTING ON DEMOCRATS SAYING WE
JUST HAVE TO MOVE ON SO LET'S
TALK ABOUT HOW
THE DEMOCRATS THAT YOU WERE
REPORTING ON VIEWED THIS PROCESS
AND WHAT ADVANTAGES WERE TO JUST
MOVING
IT ALONG QUICKLY WITH EXPEDIENCY
AND THEN TRYING TO GET TO THE
NEXT PHASE OF THE BIDEN
PRESIDENCY.
&gt;&gt; REPORTING EARLIER THIS WEEK
AND JUST A COUPLE OF DAYS AGO AS
YOU SAID, THEY HAD NOTED THAT
THE
DEMOCRATIC MANAGERS LED BY A
CONGRESSMAN JIMMY RASKIN HAD
INDEED WANTED TO CALL WITNESSES
BUT THAT VERY STRONG DESIRE TO
FIND WITNESSES AND THEY THOUGHT
THEY WERE POTENTIALLY DRAMATIC
WITNESSES BOTH IN THE LIGHTHOUSE
AND POTENTIALLY IN THE CONGRESS.
THEIR DESIRE TO DO THAT
WAS TEMPERED BY THE POLITICAL
REALITIES AND THE DESIRES
EXPRESSED BY PRESIDENT BIDEN
HIMSELF, NANCY PELOSI AND
SPEAKER SCHUMER, ANY DESIRE TO
CALL WITNESSES OR HAVE A DRAWN
OUT PROCESS TO PROVE THE
MANAGERS CASE AGAINST DONALD
TRUMP HAD TO BE TEMPERED AGAINST
THE POLITICAL REALITIES.
POLITICAL REALITY NUMBER ONE,
THEY NEED
TO GET 17 REPUBLIC SENATE VOTES
TO CONVICT AND THAT SEEMS
VERY UNLIKELY AND THERE WAS
LITTLE, ALMOST NO MOVEMENT AMONG
REPUBLICANS TOWARD CONVICTION.
TWO, THEY HAD TO DEAL WITH THE
REALITY OF
THIS COUNTRY IN AN ECONOMIC AND
HEALTH CRISIS AND JILL BIDEN'S
DESIRE TO MOVE THINGS FORWARD,
AND AGENDA FORWARD THAT WOULD
NOT BE BOGGED DOWN AS HE SAID BY
THE POLITICS OF
THE PAST. IN A JANUARY 12 CALL
WITH SPEAKER PELOSI, JOE BIDEN
SAID WE HAVE TO MOVE FORWARD,
THOUGH THERE MAY BE SOME DESIRE
TO HOLD DONALD TRUMP RESPONSIBLE
TO, IN
ESSENCE, PROSECUTE HIM FOR WHAT
WAS BELIEVED TO BE POTENTIAL
WRONGDOING REGARDING JANUARY
6th, THAT THERE WERE MORE URGENT
ITEMS ON THE AGENDA AND SO THERE
WAS THIS POLITICAL REALITY
TEMPERING THE DESIRE OF THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, THE
PROSECUTORS TO
CALL WITNESSES AND PROVE THEIR
CASE WITH DRAMATIC LIVE
TESTIMONY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH, REALLY
APPRECIATE
YOUR TIME. LET'S GO NOW TO OUR
POLITICAL REPORTER. JOYCE, WE
HEARD CHOMPS DEFENSE TEAM
EARLIER TODAY SAY
THEY HOPED TO WRAP EVERYTHING UP
REALLY BY THIS AFTERNOON. SO,
WHAT DOES THIS NEW CURVEBALL OF
POTENTIAL SLATE OF WITNESSES AND
SUBPOENAS DUE TO THEIR DEFENSE?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THAT'S RIGHT, TRUMP'S
DEFENSE TEAM WAS LOOKING TO WRAP
THIS UP TODAY. THEY WERE
EXPECTING TO GO HOME TODAY. OUR
COLLEAGUES HAVE REPORTED THAT
THEY ALREADY BOUGHT FLIGHTS HOME
AND THEY HAD, YOU KNOW, HAD
THESE
VERY SHORT DEFENSE REMARKS
YESTERDAY BECAUSE THEY THOUGHT
THIS WOULD BE A RELATIVELY DUE
PROCESS. ONE OF TRUMP'S
ATTORNEYS, DAVID SCHOEN ISN'T
EVEN ON THE FLOOR TODAY.  HE
LEFT YESTERDAY FOR
RELIGIOUS RELIGIONS BUT YOU KNOW
HE ISN'T EVEN HERE IN THE MIDST
OF EVERYTHING REALLY CHANGING
TODAY. SO A LOT REALLY TAKING
SHAPE TODAY WHEN MOST OF THE
MEMBERS OF TRUMP'S DEFENSE TEAM
JUST THOUGHT THAT THEY WOULD
VOTE TODAY AND IT WOULD BE OVER
BY LUNCH TIME. WE DID HEAR FROM
SENATOR TED CRUZ WHO SPOKE TO
THE REPORTERS JUST A FEW MINUTES
AGO AND HE HAS BEEN IN THESE
MEETINGS WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
ATTORNEYS ADVISING THEM AND
TALKING TO THEM AND THIS IS WHAT
HE HAD TO SAY. HE CALLED THIS
POLITICAL THEATER AND SAID THE
HOUSE MANAGERS WERE FEELING HEAT
ON THE LEFT AND HE SAID THAT
THEY DID NOT WANT TO CALL
WITNESSES AND HE SAID IF THEY
DO, IT IS NOT GOING TO BE
ONE-SIDED SAYING THAT TRUMP'S
DEFENSE WOULD ALSO BE CALLING
WITNESSES AS WELL. TALKS ABOUT
NANCY PELOSI SAYING THAT THEY
COULD CALL HER AND SHE CAN
TESTIFY AS TO WHEN SHE KNEW
ABOUT THE THREATS ON
THE CAPITAL
, THAT IS FROM TED CRUZ. AND
THAT IS THE QUESTION THAT WAS
POSED TO TRUMP'S DEFENSE TEAM
YESTERDAY FROM REPUBLICAN
SENATORS WHO HAD ASKED THE
QUESTION OF TRUMP WHEN HE KNEW
OF COURSE HE'S THE ONE ON TRIAL.
WHEN HE KNEW AND WHAT YOU DID
ABOUT IT AND THEY COULDN'T EVEN
ANSWER THAT, SO, TED CRUZ
THREATENING TO CALL HOUSE
SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI TO ANSWER
THOSE QUESTIONS. HE ALSO SAID HE
CALLED THIS OPENING PANDORA'S
BOX SAYING THAT THEY ARE THE
PROSECUTORS THAT THEY HAVEN'T
PROVEN THEIR CASE AND THE REASON
WHY HE CALLS THIS A HAIL MARY
HAPPENING IS BECAUSE DEMOCRATS
DON'T HAVE ENOUGH VOTES. WE ALSO
SAW JASON MILLER, ONE OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S ADVISORS,
WALKING AROUND VERY VISIBLY WITH
THIS PIECE OF PAPER WITH A LIST
OF WITNESSES THAT THE DEFENSE
COULD CALL HAD A NUMBER OF 301
WITNESSES AND ON THAT LIST OF
NAMES WAS PELOSI, KAMALA HARRIS,
CHUCK SCHUMER, JUST A FEW OF
THEM. AND EARLIER, BEFORE THIS
ALL SORT OF CAME TO LIGHT BEFORE
THE VOTE AND BEFORE TODAY'S
PROCEEDINGS, WE HAD HEARD FROM
SOMEONE THAT WAS FAMILIAR WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S DEFENSE TEAM,
THEIR LEGAL STRATEGIES SAYING
THAT TRUMP'S LAWYERS, YOU KNOW,
WERE NOT HAPPY ABOUT THE FACT
THAT THERE WERE TALKS ABOUT EVEN
WITNESSES AT THAT POINT AND THEY
THREATENED TO CALL
NANCY PELOSI, MURIEL BOWSER TO
ASK THEM UNDER OATH AND
ON CAMERA WHY THEY DID NOT
REQUEST ADDITIONAL SECURITY AND
NATIONAL
GUARD ASSISTANCE. THEY SAID IF
DEMOCRATS WANT TO GO DOWN THAT
ROAD WE ARE READY AND THIS IS
ACCORDING TO A PERSON FAMILIAR
WITH TRUMP'S LEGAL TEAM. SO IT
DOES NOT SOUND LIKE THEY ARE
HAPPY. ONE THING WE ARE WAITING
FOR AND ACTUALLY I SHOULD
MENTION THAT IN
RELATION TO THAT ASSERTION THAT
MURIEL BOWSER AND
NANCY PELOSI DID NOT CALL ON
ADDITIONAL SECURITY OR, YOU
KNOW, THE REQUEST OF NATIONAL
GUARD IT IS SIMPLY JUST NOT
TRUE. MURIEL BOWSER HAD CALLED
ON NATIONAL GUARD AND DC COUNCIL
SAID THAT THAT REQUEST WAS
DENIED BY THE DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE AFTER THE GOVERNORS
OF MARYLAND AND VIRGINIA SAYING
THAT INITIALLY THAT REQUEST WAS
DENIED SO I JUST WANT TO CLEAR
THAT UP BUT TRUMP'S ATTORNEYS
THREATENING TO CALL THOSE
WITNESSES TO POTENTIALLY PELOSI
AND
MURIEL BOWSER. WE ARE STILL
WAITING TO HEAR FROM WHAT IS
GOING
ON IN PRESIDENT BIDEN'S WORLD.
HE IS STILL AT CAMP DAVID AND WE
HAVE NOT HEARD ANY REACTION
FOLLOWING THIS REVELATION THAT
THERE WILL BE WITNESSES CALLED
IN THIS TRIAL, HIS TEAM HAS
RELEASED A SHORT NOTE THAT THE
PRESIDENT WILL BE MEETING WITH
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISORS LATER
TODAY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH. LET'S GO
TO YOU. LET'S TALK THROUGH FIRST
THE REALITY OF HOW LIKELY IS IT
THEY COULD GET WITNESSES AND
THEN WHAT IS THERE POLITICAL
ADVANTAGE TO BE CLAMORING FOR
WITNESSES AND TALKING A
LOT ABOUT THAT GOAL OF THEIRS
RIGHT NOW?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, SO YOU NEED 51 VOTES TO
CALL WITNESSES. IT IS NOT JUST
THE REGULAR SENATE, KAMALA
HARRIS ACTUALLY WOULD NOT BE
ABLE TO CAST A TIE-BREAKING VOTE
IN THE FAVOR OF DEMOCRATS. SO IT
REALLY IS GOING TO COME DOWN
TO WHAT A COUPLE OF THESE
REPUBLICANS ON THE FENCE
WILL DO.
WHAT IS INTERESTING IS SOMEONE
LIKE
NANCY PELOSI AS JOYCE WAS JUST
TALKING ABOUT, THAT ACTUALLY
MIGHT HELP THE DEMOCRATIC CASE.
IT MIGHT ACTUALLY BE QUITE
COMPELLING FOR THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS TO HAVE
NANCY PELOSI SITTING ON THE
FLOOR OF THE SENATE TALKING
ABOUT HER EXPERIENCE THAT DAY
AND THE HORROR OF IT AND HOW IT
HAS AFFECTED HER MEMBERS AND HER
STAFF AND HOW THE DEATH THREATS
THAT
SHE'S GOTTEN AFTER TRUMP HAS
ATTACKED HER FOR YEARS AND
YEARS, SOME OF THE MOST
COMPELLING FOOTAGE WAS WHEN
THEY SHOWED THE SLASHERS STYLE
HORROR MOVIE OF THESE CLIPS OF
CREEPY
GUYS WAVING CONFEDERATE FLAGS
SAYING, NANCY, WHERE
ARE YOU? THAT COULD ACTUALLY BE
QUITE COMPELLING TO RELITIGATE
THAT AND CERTAINLY NOT HELPFUL
TO TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; IN ADDITION TO THAT, JAMES,
WE KNOW FROM
IN REAL-TIME THAT PEOPLE LIKE
THE GOVERNOR OF VIRGINIA AND THE
GOVERNOR OF MARYLAND WERE
TALKING ABOUT DEMOCRATIC LEADERS
CALLING THEM WITH DESPERATE
PLEAS TO
SEND HELP.
&gt;&gt; THIS EVEN HITS AT THE
VALIDITY OF WHAT TRUMP'S LAWYERS
ARE ALLEGING.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, IF YOU LOOK AT THE
PANDORA'S BOX,
IF YOU LOOK AT THAT IT IS NINE
PEOPLE THE DEMOCRATS COULD CALL.
BUT NOT ON THAT LIST ARE PEOPLE
RELATED TO THE MILITARY BECAUSE
JOE BIDEN IS NOW PRESIDENT,
TRUMP REALLY CAN'T CLAIM
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE OR ARMY
SECRETARY FROM
TALKING ABOUT THE ORDERS THAT
WERE GIVEN ARE NOT GIVEN. WE DO
KNOW FROM IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS,
IT LISTED
SEVERAL PEOPLE INCLUDING MIKE
PENCE BUT TRUMP'S NAME WAS NOT
ON THAT LIST. AGAIN YOU SORT OF
HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT
HOSTILE WITNESSES.
BUT YOU KNOW YOU COULD HAVE
PENCE BE A HOSTILE WITNESS AND
END UP PRAISING TRUMP AND THAT
COULD END UP NOT HELPING THE
CASE BUT IT CERTAINLY IF YOU ARE
GOING TO START OPENING THE DOOR
AND HAVE REPUBLICANS PULLING IN
THAT PEOPLE LIKE NANCY PELOSI
YOU ARE GOING TO HAVE PRESSURE
FROM THE LEFT OF SENATE
DEMOCRATS TO SAY LET'S CALL MIKE
PENCE, LET'S CALL MARK MEADOWS
AND THAT, YOU KNOW, CERTAINLY
WOULD BE INTERESTING TO WATCH AS
A TEST VOTE FOR HOW MANY
REPUBLICANS, YOU KNOW, WOULD YOU
GET ROMNEY
THAT IS WHY THIS IS
SO FASCINATING AND SO MUCH CHAOS
RIGHT NOW BEHIND CLOSED DOORS IN
THE CAPITAL.
&gt;&gt; IT IS 12:16 RIGHT NOW WHICH
MEANS
THERE'S ABOUT 16 MINUTES LEFT
UNTIL THEY COME BACK AND. SO WE
WILL FIND OUT WHAT HAPPENS NEXT.
IT REALLY IS TRULY A BIG?
AND SO WE ARE WATCHING TO SEE AT
12:30 IF WE GET MORE CLARITY ON
JUST WHAT WITNESSES MAY BE IN
THE
MIX, RHONDA.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S RIGHT. WE ARE ALL
LEARNING IS THIS HAPPEN SO WE
ARE WAITING TO SEE WHAT THE NEXT
STEPS ARE, WHAT OUTSIDES ARE
AGREEING TO, BUT THEIR THINKING
IS RIGHT NOW. I AND THINKING
BACK TO THE LAST IMPEACHMENT AND
THE QUESTION OF WITNESSES WAS A
REALLY IMPORTANT ONE AND IF
EVERYONE REMEMBERS THERE WAS A
SERIES OF CLOSED DOOR THE
POSITIONS WHERE THEY CAME A
DETAILED WHAT THEY KNEW ABOUT
THE UKRAINE CALL BUT LATER
WITNESSES WERE ON FRONT OF THE
HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT COMMITTEES WHICH WAS
LED BY THE HOUSE JUDICIARY AND
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEES AND
THERE WAS
THIS -- THERE WAS THIS THEME
THAT WAS NOT A
FAIR PROCESS A GROUP THAT WILL
AGREE TO WHO HAS WITNESSES AND
WHAT WITNESSES THERE ARE AND HOW
MANY WITNESSES COME TO THIS,
THEY MIGHT START THOSE CLAIMS
THAT THEY DIDN'T GET THE
WITNESSES THAT THEY WANTED WHICH
WAS SOMETHING THAT THE HOUSE
REPUBLICANS DURING THE LAST
IMPEACHMENT REALLY TALKED A LOT
ABOUT. MAJOR SAID THAT THIS WAS
A SHAM PROCESS ALL THE WAY UP
INTO THE DAY OF THE VOTE OR
IMPEACHMENT OF THE HOUSE THEY
KEPT SAYING THEY DIDN'T GET THE
WITNESSES THEY WANTED TO WHEN
YOU DO OPEN THE DOOR FOR
WITNESSES THERE'S ALSO THIS
CHRIS WARE BECOMES A
VERY PARTISAN AND YOU COULD HEAR
CLAIMS FROM THE REPUBLICAN
SENATORS AS WELL AS TRUMP'S
DEFENSE TEAM SAYING, WELL, WE
WANTED THESE WITNESSES BUT THEY
WOULDN'T LET US HAVE THEM. SO
THAT IS ANOTHER PART AND FACTOR
OF OPENING UP THE IDEA OF
WITNESSES IN THIS BUT OF COURSE
WE ARE STILL WAITING FOR DETAILS
TO EMERGE AS TO WHERE THEY GO
NEXT.
&gt;&gt; JOINING US NOW BY PHONE IS
ROSALYN, YOU BEEN WRITING ABOUT
THIS DEBATE QUESTION ABOUT WHAT
KNEW ABOUT
THE DANGER THAT HE WAS
IN ON THE SIXTH AND HOW
REACTED TO THAT INFORMATION PLUS
HELP GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THAT
ANSWER.
&gt;&gt;
YEAH, THERE ARE A TON
PEOPLE THAT COULD HELP
ON THAT INCLUDING
IN THE WHITE HOUSE
AT THE TIME BUT ALSO SOME PEOPLE
WHO ARE RIGHT THERE IN THE
SENATE CHAMBER, WE KNOW THAT
AFTER, SHORTLY AFTER THE SENATE
ACTION WAS HALTED BY THE WRITERS
THAT DAY, THEN PRESIDENT TRUMP
PLAYED THE PHONE CALL. HE WAS
TRYING TO REACH HIM BUT HE
ACTUALLY CALLED SENATOR MICHAEL
E AND SO THEY HAVE SOME
INFORMATION ABOUT WHAT THE
PRESIDENT WAS DOING AND THINKING
IN THOSE HOURS AS DOES, YOU
KNOW, THE THEN HOUSE MINORITY
LEADER, KEVIN McCARTHY LET ME
SEE HOW TO PHRASE THIS, THERE IS
A QUESTION ABOUT HOW MIKE LEE
WANTS IT IN THE RECORD AS JUST
HOW HIS NAME WAS INVOKED EARLY
IN THIS PROCESS, RIGHT? SO,
LET'S TALK ABOUT SENATOR LEE AND
THE RELEVANCE AND SORT OF, YOU
KNOW, WHAT HIM STAYING AND
TRYING TO OBJECT ACTUALLY MEANT
FOR BOTH THE PROCESS AS WELL AS
CLARITY ON WHAT HE KNOWS.
&gt;&gt; YEAH. I'M GOING TO START AT
THE END OF THAT. SO, HERE'S WHAT
APPARENTLY HE KNOWS. HE KNOWS HE
RECEIVED A PHONE CALL FROM THEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP RIGHT AFTER
SENATE ACTION WAS HALTED THAT
DAY. ON THE LINE WAS TRUMP. HE
APPARENTLY BEGAN THE CALL BY
SAYING SOMETHING LIKE, HEY
TOMMY, FROM WHICH BIKE WE
UNDERSTOOD THAT TRUMP WAS
ACTUALLY TRYING TO REACH TOMMY
TURBERVILLE. HE APPARENTLY HAD
THE WRONG NUMBER. WE HAD HE HAD
PREVIOUSLY SAID HE THEN HANDED
HIS PHONE OVER TO TOMMY
TURBERVILLE AND THE TWO OF THEM
SPOKE FOR SEVERAL MINUTES. NOW,
THERE HAD BEEN THIS QUESTION
ABOUT THE FIRST TIME OF THAT
PHONE CALL AND THE REASON IS
BECAUSE AT 2:24 P.M. THAT
AFTERNOON, DONALD TRUMP TREATED
A NEW ATTACK OF THE VICE
PRESIDENT. HE TREATED THAT MIKE
PENCE LACKED COURAGE. AND THEY
TOLD TRUMP ON THAT PHONE CALL
THAT MIKE PENCE HAD JUST BEEN
EVACUATED FROM THE CHAMBER SO
THERE WAS THIS QUESTION. IS IT
POSSIBLE THAT TRUMP PADS
LITERALLY JUST BEEN TOLD BY
TURBERVILLE THAT HIS VICE
PRESIDENT WAS IN DANGER AND HE
THEN RESPONDED TO THAT
INFORMATION BY TWEETING A NEW
ATTACK ON HIM? IT LOOKS LIKE
THAT IS NOT WHAT HAPPENED. IT
MIGHT BE JUST TODAY A CELL PHONE
LOG FROM THE CALL AND WE HAVE
NOW GIVEN THAT AS WELL AS THE
DEFENSE ATTORNEYS.
THE
FIRST THINK THING THAT HE THINGS
TO DO IS CALL TOMMY TO REVEAL.
WHY TOMMY TURBERVILLE? BECAUSE
HE WAS OBJECTING TO THE
ELECTORAL COLLEGE VOTE. HE WAS
PURSUING THE EFFORTS TO STOP
THIS CERTIFICATION PROCESS AS
THE RIDER STORMED THROUGH THE
BUILDING. HE WAS THEN TOLD IN A
FOUR MINUTE PHONE CALL THAT, YOU
KNOW, AMONG OTHER THINGS THAT
ARE GOING ON, THE SENATE IS
BEING EVACUATED AND HIS OWN VICE
PRESIDENT HAD JUST BEEN
EVACUATED AND, YOU KNOW, HE HAD
JUST TWEETED THIS ATTACK. DID HE
GO ON TWITTER AND SAY, YOU KNOW,
WHATEVER YOU MAY THINK ABOUT MY
VICE PRESIDENT, TO PLEASE DON'T
HURT HIM, PLEASE DON'T DO
VIOLENCE. GO HOME, WE
PENCE MORE
IN COMING DAYS. NO, HE DOESN'T
ANYTHING LIKE THAT. HE DOESN'T
FOR
A WHILE LONGER BEFORE HE SAYS
PEACEFUL WHICH THEY HAVE NOTED
AS KIND
OF AN ODD THING TO
A CROWD THAT IT WAS AT THAT
VERY MOMENT COMMITTING VIOLENCE.
&gt;&gt;
APPRECIATE YOU LAYING OUT THIS
TIMELINE AND DIGGING INTO THIS
BECAUSE AS YOU POINT OUT, YOU
KNOW, THE FACTS ARE ESSENTIAL TO
UNDERSTANDING, YOU KNOW, WHAT
HAPPENED, BUT, YOU KNOW, YOU
BRING UP SOME REALLY IMPORTANT
POINTS ABOUT, OKAY, SO IF THE
TIMELINE IS CLARIFIED AND NOW
AND CORRECTED, WHAT DOES THAT
STILL SAY ABOUT DONALD TRUMP'S
KNOWLEDGE THAT AFTERNOON? RIGHT?
THE SENATORS WANT TO KNOW WHAT
DID HE KNOW THAT MIKE PENCE FOR
EXAMPLE WAS IN DANGER. WHEN DID
HE KNOW IT AND WHAT DID HE DO?
AS YOU POINT OUT, HE DIDN'T COME
OUT AND USE SOCIAL MEDIA OR ANY
OTHER TOOL AT HIS DISPOSAL TO
TRY TO CALM THE CROWDS AND I
THINK IT IS IMPORTANT TO POINT
OUT THAT TWITTER IS NOT THE ONLY
TOOL AT HIS DISPOSAL. COULD'VE
GONE INTO THE BRIEFING ROOM,
DONE IN OVAL OFFICE ADDRESS.
THERE ARE A LOT OF WAYS HE CAN
COMMUNICATE WITH THE AMERICAN
PUBLIC. SO YOU KNOW, AS HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS AND TRUMP'S
LAWYERS TRY TO PROVE THEIR
POINTS HERE, HOW SIGNIFICANT
WILL THIS TIMELINE BE TO BOTH OF
THEIR, YOU KNOW, LINES OF EITHER
ATTACK OR DEFENSE?
&gt;&gt; I THINK THERE'S A LOT OF
INFORMATION THAT IS ALREADY IN
THE PUBLIC REALM. IN PART
BECAUSE THESE EVENTS WERE NOT
HIDDEN OR SECRET. THEY HAPPENED
IN REAL TIME AND WE WATCHED IT
UNFOLD ON OUR TELEVISION. SO WE
NOW THAT THEY HAVE ALREADY LAID
OUT FOR THE SENATORS AS PART OF
THEIR CASE, YOU KNOW, WE KNOW
THAT THE COUNTING OF THE
ELECTORAL VOTE WAS HALTED
BECAUSE THERE WERE WRITERS IN
THE BUILDING. AND WE KNOW THAT
ALL OVER THE NEWS THAT
AFTERNOON, AS SOON AS THAT
HAPPENED, THAT BECAME THE STORY
OF THE DAY AND THERE WERE ALL
KINDS OF WRITERS SORT OF
BATTLING WITH COPS ON THE FRONT
STEPS HE DIDN'T TWEET ABOUT WHAT
WAS GOING ON UNTIL 2:38 P.M.,
WHICH WAS ABOUT 40 MINUTES AFTER
THE WRITERS HAD BREACHED THE
OUTSIDE PERIMETER OF THE
CAPITAL. THIS IS THE TWEET WHERE
HE SAYS STAY PEACEFUL. IT THEN
TAKES THEM ANOTHER MAYBE HALF
HOUR BEFORE HE SENDS A SECOND
TWEET AND THEN ANOTHER HOUR
BEFORE HE PUTS OUT A VIDEO WHERE
HE TELLS THE WRITERS TO GO HOME.
BUT IN THAT VIDEO, IT HAD BEEN
REALLY RATE OUT REPEATEDLY IN
THE TRIAL, HE ALSO HAS ALL THESE
OTHER COMMENTS ABOUT HOW HE
KNOWS HOW THEY FEEL AND HOW, YOU
KNOW, THAT HE LOVES THEM, THEY
WERE VERY SPECIAL. SO, ALL OF
THAT IS PUBLIC. THERE IS ALSO A
PRIVATE COMPONENT. THERE'S A LOT
OF PEOPLE WHO WERE IN THE WHITE
HOUSE AND KNOW WHAT THE
PRESIDENT WAS SAYING. THERE ARE
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WHO TRIED TO
REACH THEM THAT DAY. HE WAS
FRUSTRATED BY HIS INABILITY TO
REACH TRUMP AND BY HOW
DISTRACTED HE SEEMED AND THAT HE
WASN'T ACTING MORE QUICKLY. SO,
YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY SENATE
ACTION HAS BEEN BROKEN TODAY
BECAUSE THEY ARE TALKING ABOUT
CALLING WITNESSES AND SPEAKING
DOCUMENTS. THERE'S A LOT MORE
INFORMATION WE COULD LEARN
THROUGH THE AVENUES BY WITNESS
TESTIMONY. HAVING SAID THAT, WE
ALSO KIND OF KNOW WHAT HAPPENED
THAT AFTERNOON AT THE HIGH
LEVEL.
&gt;&gt; ARE THERE STILL MORE
QUESTIONS YOU HAVE IN TERMS OF
THE TIMELINE AND WHAT
INFORMATION WE ARE ALSO LOOKING
FOR?
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LOVE TO HEAR FROM
KEVIN McCARTHY HIMSELF ABOUT
THIS PHONE CALL HE HAD WITH THE
PRESIDENT. YOU KNOW. IT IS ONE
THING TO HEAR FROM ANOTHER
CONGRESSWOMAN, JAMIE HERRERA
BUTLER ABOUT WHAT SHE WAS TOLD
BY KEVIN McCARTHY HAPPENED
ON IT. ONLY WHAT HE TOLD HIS
COLLEAGUES IS THAT THE PRESIDENT
TOLD HIM ON THAT PHONE CALL THAT
THE WRITERS APPEAR TO CARE MORE
ABOUT THE ELECTION THAN KEVIN IN
KEVIN
McCARTHY DID. AT THE MOMENT HE'S
BEING TOLD BY ONE OF HIS CLOSEST
ALLIES IN THE HOUSE THAT THEY
ARE DOING VIOLENCE AND
THREATENING HIS OWN PEOPLE. I
WOULD LIKE SOMEDAY TO HEAR FROM
KEVIN McCARTHY ABOUT THAT. THE
OTHER PIECE THAT I THINK REMAINS
SOMEWHAT FUZZY AND WOULD BE GOOD
TO HAVE MORE CLARITY ABOUT IS
MORE ON THE NATIONAL GUARD
QUESTION. THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF
REPORTING ABOUT A SORT OF SERIES
OF MEETINGS THAT
TOOK PLACE
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR TAKING
THE TIME TO TALK WITH US. IN A
MOMENT WE WILL HEAD BACK TO THE
SENATE CHAMBER AS THEY ARE
ANTICIPATED
TO RESUME THAT THERE IS
INCREASING CHATTER THAT STILL
CALL ENDED TODAY, BOTH SIDES OF
THE AISLE SAY THEY ARE
DISCUSSING ALLOWING THE
STATEMENT OF CONGRESSWOMAN
HERRERA BUTLER INTO THE RECORD
THAT STATEMENT THAT SHE HAS
SHARED THAT WOULD CLOSE
OFF WITNESSES AND THEN PROCEED
TO CLOSING STATEMENTS. SO THAT
WOULD MEAN THEY WOULDN'T HAVE TO
HEAR FROM HER IN PERSON, GET
A DEPOSITION AND MIKE IS SAYING
THAT ONE OF THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS CONGRESSWOMAN WHEN
ASKED ABOUT THE POSSIBLE DEAL
DID NOT DENY, THEY WERE WORKING
ON THE ISSUE. ONE OF
THE DEMOCRATS SAID I THINK MOST
SENATORS WOULD SUPPORT THAT. SO
THERE IS AN INDICATION THAT THAT
COULD BE ONE OFFRAMP HERE.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY. ONE OF HIS BEST
FRIENDS IN THE SENATE HOLDS HIS
SENATE SEAT AND THERE IS A
DESIRE BY DEMOCRATS NOT TO OPEN
THE PANDORA'S BOX ESPECIALLY BY
PEOPLE LIKE HIM AND WE JUST SAW
MICHAEL BENNET FROM COLORADO
WALK BY WHO WOULD BE IN THAT
SAME CAMP AS WELL AND THIS
COULD BE
THEY WOULD BE STIPULATING WHICH
MEANS THEY ARE A GOOD KNOWLEDGE
INKING, ACCEPTED AS TRUE THAT
THE CALL TOOK PLACE
AS DESCRIBED BY HERRERA BUTLER.
THAT IS A REFLECTION OF THEIR
CONFIDENCE THAT THEY HAVE THE
VOTES TO PREVAIL EVEN IF THEY
ACKNOWLEDGE FOR THE RECORD WHICH
IS WHAT THIS DEAL WOULD MEAN
THAT TRUMP WAS FOCUSED ON, YOU
KNOW, NOT
SENDING HELP THAT TRUMP RESISTED
CALLS FROM HIS CLOSEST
REPUBLICAN ALLIES FROM KEVIN
McCARTHY TO COME TO THE AID OF
THESE
IMPERILED LAWMAKERS. SO, I THINK
THAT WOULD MAKE IT HARDER FOR
SOME OF THOSE ON THE FENCE
REPUBLICANS IF THEY AGREE TO
THAT STIPULATION FOR PEOPLE LIKE
MARKOWSKI, COLLINS
AND ROMNEY IS THE PRESIDENT'S
DEFENSE TEAM SAYS, YEAH, THAT IS
WHAT THE PRESIDENT DID. BUT IT
ALSO WOULD MEAN THE NEED TO HEAR
FROM ADDITIONAL WITNESSES WHO
WOULD TESTIFY TO THAT EFFECT
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE
TEAM WOULD BE ESSENTIALLY
ADMITTING IT.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS LIVE COVERAGE FROM
THE WASHINGTON POST AND WE WILL
BRING THIS TO YOU. SENATOR PAT
LEAHY IS IN THE CHAIR, HE IS THE
PRESIDING OFFICER OVER THIS
TRIAL, IMPORTANT TO NOTE IS NOT
THE SUPREME COURT'S CHIEF. IT IS
ALSO NOT KAMALA HARRIS WHO OFTEN
ACTS AS PRESIDENT OF THE SENATE
IN HER ROLE AS VICE PRESIDENT
AND SENATOR LEAHY IS LEADING
THIS GROUP. WE CAN SEE SOME OF
THE LAWYER/IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
GATHERED NOW. WE WILL BE WAITING
TO SEE WHEN THEY GAVEL
BACK IN AND LET US ALL KNOW JUST
WHAT NEXT STEPS WILL BE TAKEN. I
WANT TO
REMIND YOU
THAT IS THE STATEMENT PUT OUT BY
WASHINGTON STATE REPUBLICAN
CONGRESSWOMAN
HERRERA BUTLER. WE CAN SEE MITT
ROMNEY THEY'RE TALKING TO
REPORTERS. HE IS OF COURSE
SOMEONE OF INTEREST. WE WILL
WANT TO KNOW IF THIS ARRANGEMENT
WOULD SATISFY HIM BECAUSE HE'S
ONE OF THE REPUBLICANS WHO HAS
VOTED
ON THIS ABILITY TO CALL
WITNESSES. NOW JUST WHICH
WITNESSES THEY WOULD BE HAVE YET
TO BE VOTED ON BY MEMBERS OF THE
SENATE. RHONDA, THERE'S BEEN
SOME ATTACKS AGAINST
CONGRESSWOMAN ALREADY
FROM FRESHMAN
TAYLOR GREEN
.
&gt;&gt;
THAT'S RIGHT. WHATEVER COMES,
WHAT WE ARE ABOUT TO LEARN HERE
WHEN THEY MAKE
A DECISION, THEY ARE JUST
SHOWING THAT THAT IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL DID NOT GO THROUGH
AS SMOOTHLY
THIS IS SIGNALING THAT A LOT OF
SENATE REPUBLICANS LIKE ROMNEY,
COLLINS, MURKOWSKI, THEY ARE
TROUBLED BY THE DETAILS THEY
LEARNED TO SPEAK SO, WHATEVER
HAPPENS IN THE NEXT FEW MINUTES
WE DO KNOW THAT THIS PROCESS DID
NOT MOVE FORWARD
AS QUICKLY AS TAUGHT BY THE
SENATE REPUBLICANS OR AS QUICKLY
AS IT DID THE LAST
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL.
&gt;&gt; SO, WE ALL KNOW THAT
CONGRESSWOMAN MARJORIE TAYLOR
GREEN IS SEEN AS A REAL OUTLIER
IN THE REPUBLICAN RANKS, BUT,
YOU KNOW, THERE ARE MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS WHO STILL SUPPORT
DONALD TRUMP AND WHO STILL
BELIEVE THAT THE ELECTION WAS
STOLEN, WHICH OF COURSE IS NOT
TRUE. WHAT SORT OF PERIL CAN
CONGRESSWOMAN PUT HERRERA BUTLER
BE IN WASHINGTON WITH THIS
INFORMATION SHE
IS SHARING?
&gt;&gt; SHE'S IN A REALLY INTERESTING
POSITION BECAUSE WASHINGTON
STATE IS ONE OF THE FEW PLACES
IN THE COUNTRY THAT HAS A TOP
TWO PRIMARY SYSTEM. SO SHE
DOESN'T HAVE TO WORRY ABOUT JUST
LOSING A REPUBLICAN PRIMARY
INSTEAD EVERY CANDIDATE,
REPUBLICAN OR DEMOCRAT WOULD
VOTE
AND SO THAT ALMOST CERTAINLY
WOULD MEAN SHE WOULD BE ABLE TO
GET REELECTED WITH DEMOCRATIC
VOTES OVER KIND OF A CHALLENGE.
IT IS THE
SAME WAY
WE ALL KNOW IT IS A CONCERN OF
MANY REPUBLICANS AND IS THIS
SOMETHING THEY HAVE TO WEIGH IN
THIS POLITICAL PROCESS FRANKLY
AND WE EVEN HEARD THROUGH
THE PRIMARY THE WORD DANGLED AND
USED A LOT BY TRUMP'S LAWYERS,
THEY WERE USING IT IN RELATION
TO SOMETHING ELSE. EVERY TIME
YOU BRING UP THAT WORD IT CAN'T
HELP BUT RESONATE FOR THEIR
FUTURE MEDICAL FATE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, IT WAS FUNNY, TO ONE OF
THE SENATORS, THEY WERE ACTUALLY
TEXTING ME OF THAT
WAS HAPPENING I RESPONDED AND
SAID WELL ACTUALLY IT PROBABLY
IS GOOD TO REMIND THEM FOR THE
PURPOSES BECAUSE IT WILL MAKE
THEM LESS LIKELY TO CROSS HIM
AND HE SAID ACTUALLY YOU ARE
RIGHT THAT IS A
GOOD POINT.
WE WILL SEE IF THAT WILL SATISFY
JUST WHAT SENATORS WANT
TO HEAR.
IN RESPONSE, MICHAEL VANITY
THREATENED TO CALL 100 WITNESSES
AND GATHER 100 WITNESSES BACK IN
PHILADELPHIA WHICH
OBVIOUSLY WOULD
.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT. AND FOR THOSE OF US
WHO WERE WATCHING THE EARLIER
PART OF THIS, HE WAS SORT OF
ARGUING ABOUT THE PROCESS THAT
THAT IS NOT
WHAT HAPPENED
EVEN THOUGH THAT IS HIS AREA OF
EXPERTISE, THE SENATE HAS
ADOPTED SPECIFIC ROLES AND PART
OF THE RULES FOR THIS
IMPEACHMENT IS TO HAVE THIS TYPE
OF VOTE WHERE THEY
CAN DECIDE AFTER THEY'VE HEARD
THESE OPENING ARGUMENTS IF THEY
WANT TO INCLUDE WITNESSES OR NOT
SO AGAIN THAT SEEMS TO BE PART
OF THE MORNING WHERE HE
ILLUSTRATED HE MIGHT'VE BEEN
CAUGHT OFF GUARD BY JAMIE
RASKIN'S POINT ABOUT RINGING IN
HERRERA BUTLER IT ALSO SHOWS HOW
JAMIE RASKIN IS READING THE
ROOM. OUT OF ALL THE DETAILS
WE'VE HEARD THIS WEEK THE
AFTERMATH, YOU KNOW,
THE GLOBE ABOUT WHAT WAS
HAPPENING HERE IN AMERICA, THE
ONE DETAIL THAT SEEMS TO HAVE
BEEN REALLY CRUCIAL TO THIS
ENTIRE TRIAL WAS WHAT HAPPENED
WITH MIKE PENCE. THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS SPENT A LOT OF TIME ON
THAT IN THEIR ARGUMENTS THAT HE
WAS PUT IN DANGER BY HIS OWN
PRESIDENT, HIS RUNNING MATE,
SOMEBODY HE WAS REALLY LOYAL TO
AND THAT SEEMS
TO RALEIGH REALLY STRIKE A CHORD
AND THAT IS AT THE CORE OF WHY
WE ARE SEEING THIS WITNESS VOTE
TURNOUT THE WAY THAT IT DID. SO
AGAIN JAMIE RASKIN BRING IN HIS
IDEA TO BRING A WITNESS THAT CAN
EXPAND A LITTLE BIT MORE ON THIS
CALL WITH KEVIN McCARTHY. IT
JUST SHOWS YOU THAT IMPEACHMENT
MANAGER TEAM, THEY ARE LOOKING
AT THE ROOM, THEY ARE
CONSIDERING WHERE THE SENATORS
THAT FALL IN THE MIDDLE, WHAT
THEY ARE CARING ABOUT AND
THEY'VE DECIDED THAT THAT IS
GOING TO BE PART OF THEIR FIGHT
MOVING FORWARD IN THIS LAST LEG
OF THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL.
&gt;&gt; IF
THIS STATEMENT IS ULTIMATELY
SEEN AS SUFFICIENT TO ANSWER THE
SENATORS QUESTION, IT WOULD
ALSO, THE TIME WHERE SENATOR
MIKE LEE HAS TURNED OVER HIS
PHONE RECORDS AND INFORMATION TO
THIS ROOM, SO, WE MAY END UP
SEEING THESE SORT OF TWO PIECES
OF EVIDENCE, PAPER EVIDENCE
ESSENTIALLY COME INTO PLAY TO
ARGUE DIFFERENT THINGS ABOUT
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
MINDSET POTENTIALLY IN THESE
CRUCIAL HOURS THAT RHONDA WAS
JUST DESCRIBING.
&gt;&gt; YEAH. AND RHONDA SAID THERE
IS DIVISION IN BOTH CHAMBERS
WHICH IS ABSOLUTELY TRUE AND
THERE'S ALSO DIVISION AMONG
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS IN
BOTH CHAMBERS. THEY WERE SAYING
LOOK AT THE PANICKED REACTIONS
OF TRUMP'S LAWYERS TO WHAT IS
HAPPENING AND TO THE VOTE FOR
WITNESSES AND THEIR FREAK OUT
AND KIND OF THE DIVISIONS AMONG
THE LEGAL
TEAM AND THERE YOU HAVE HUNDRED
WITNESSES. THERE ARE SOME THAT
ARE SAYING THEY FEEL LIKE THEY
ARE ONTO SOMETHING AND THEY, YOU
KNOW, HAVE SORT OF SENSED THIS
FEAR OF THE FORMER PRESIDENT'S
DEFENSE TEAM AND SO THERE IS
ULTIMATELY DEMOCRATS THAT ARE
GOING TO VOTE IN LINE WITH THEIR
LEADERS. I EXPECT, BUT IT IS
INTERESTING BECAUSE THERE
CLEARLY IS SOME SENSE ON THE
DEMOCRATIC SIDE THAT THERE IS A
LOT HERE AND THAT REPUBLICANS
ARE HYPERSENSITIVE ABOUT THE
LACK OF RESPONSE WHILE I LOVE
THEM WERE IN DANGER. IT IS
INTERESTING BECAUSE THE FOCUS ON
THIS AT THE END HERE MEANS
THAT ULTIMATELY TRUMPS RESPONSE
TO THE RIGHT IS GETTING MORE
ATTENTION WHICH ISN'T A GOOD OR
BAD THING BUT ALL THE COMMENTS
LEADING UP TO THE BREACH OF THE
CAPITAL WHICH WAS A HUGE
EMPHASIS FOR, YOU KNOW, FOR THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS BUT
INSTEAD WE ARE LOOKING AT THE
REACTION IN THE PIVOTAL MINUTES
AFTER THE CAPITAL HAD BEEN
BREACHED
AND PERHAPS THE FOCUS IS THERE
BECAUSE THAT IS AS YOU JUST
NOTED, SUCH AN IMPORTANT AREA OF
CONCERN FOR THE SWING
REPUBLICANS WHO ARE ULTIMATELY
THE ONES THAT ARE GOING TO
DECIDE EVEN IF TRUMP DOESN'T GET
DISQUALIFIED FROM HOLDING OFFICE
IN
THE FUTURE, THE MOST BIPARTISAN
IMPEACHMENT VOTE IN AMERICAN
HISTORY.
&gt;&gt; AS WE BEEN TALKING ABOUT
EARLIER THIS MORNING, JAMES,
TRUMP'S LAWYER ARGUED THAT THAT
IS IRRELEVANT. THAT THAT
TIMELINE AND WHAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP DID AFTER THE ATTACK
STARTED AND FROM THAT TIME ON,
THAT IT IS IRRELEVANT.
&gt;&gt; AND THAT IS ONE OF THE
REASONS THAT IF THERE IS A DEAL
THAT IS COMING TOGETHER RIGHT
NOW AND I THINK THAT THERE IS
PUSHBACK TO THE DEAL AND THERE
IS A DESIRE TO GET THE DEAL DONE
AND IF THERE IS A DEAL, THE
DEFENSE LAWYERS ARE STIPULATING
THAT ALL OF THE THIS TERRIBLE
STUFF THAT IS ALLEGED THAT THAT
HAPPENED AND THEY CAN BE
COMFORTABLE STIPULATING
THAT BECAUSE THEIR CLAIM IS THAT
IT
IS IRRELEVANT SO I DO THINK IF
WE WERE IN A SITUATION WHERE WE
WERE GOING TO HEAR THE CLOSING
ARGUMENTS FROM BOTH SIDES THIS
AFTERNOON YOU WOULD HEAR MICHAEL
VAN DER VEENS EMPHASIZE THAT.
WHICH IS WHAT HAPPENED BECAUSE
THE CHARGE
IS THAT TRUMP INCITED THAT GROUP
TO BREACH THE CAPITAL SO IT
DOESN'T MATTER WHAT THEY DID
ONCE THE CAPITAL WAS BREACHED
JUST BASED ON LOOKING AT
THE TEXT OBVIOUSLY A LOT OF
REPUBLICANS CLEARLY THINK IT
MATTERS A GREAT DEAL INCLUDING
MARKOWSKI AND COLLINS AND ROMNEY
WHO BELIEVED THAT IT DOES SPEAK
TO WHAT HIS STATE OF MIND WAS
AND WHETHER OR NOT HE WAS HAPPY
THAT THERE WAS THIS ATTEMPTED
INSURRECTION.
&gt;&gt; AND ALSO POTENTIALLY
ENDANGERING A LIFE NOT ONLY ON
ALL THE INDIVIDUALS SOME OF WHOM
ARE IN THIS CHAMBER NOW MANY OF
WHOM ARE
NOT JANITORS, CAPITAL POLICE,
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE,
JOURNALIST, BUT ALSO THE LIFE OF
MIKE PENCE WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN
TRYING TO SORT OF PAINT HIM AS A
PATRIOT AND SOMEONE WHO YOU CAN
EITHER SIDE WITH HIM OR YOU CAN
SIDE WITH DONALD TRUMP, THAT IS
THE ARGUMENT THEY ARE TRYING TO
GET IN THE HEADS OF THOSE
SENATORS. WE ARE STILL WATCHING
AND WAITING FOR THE SENATE TO
KICK BACK AND HEAR. WHY WOULD
DEMOCRATS POTENTIALLY AGREE TO
ALLOWING THE STATEMENT OF
CONGRESSWOMAN HERRERA BUTLER,
WHAT DO THEY GAIN BY MOVING FROM
THE PROCESS
MORE
QUICKLY?
&gt;&gt; THIS IS ONE OF THE THINGS WHY
THIS WOULD BE SUMMED UP TODAY
AND
KIND OF PUT A PERIOD TO TODAY,
SO THAT THEY COULD GO AND HANDLE
HIS CONFIRMATION HEARINGS AND
THE REST OF HIS CABINET, ALSO
VOTE ON THE NEXT CORONAVIRUS AID
BILL, SO,
POLITICALLY SPEAKING, AND
EXPEDITIOUS TRIAL FOR THEM MEANS
THAT THEY CAN GET BACK TO
HELPING ESTABLISH THE NEW
PRESIDENT, THE PRESIDENT OF
THEIR PARTY SO THAT WAS REALLY A
MOTIVATION OF SOME OF THE
DEMOCRATS WHO WANTED TO MOVE ON
IN FACT ONE OF THE BIG
CONFIRMATION HERE UPCOMING AND
AS THEY JUST SENT BY THE
JUDICIARY CHAIR ON FEBRUARY
22nd, THEY WILL START THE
CONFIRMATION HEARING PROCESS OF
MAYOR GARLAND WHO IS SET TO BE
THE NEW
ATTORNEY GENERAL. SO THEY
ALREADY PUT THAT ON THE CALENDAR
WHILE THEY WERE GOING THROUGH
THIS WEEK'S TRIAL AND I THINK
THAT WAS A SINGLE THAT THEY ARE
FORWARD THINKING RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT, WE ARE JUST
WAITING TO SEE AS THIS GET
STARTED. ANOTHER IMPORTANT PART
IS THAT ONCE YOU START OPENING
THE BOX OF WITNESSES NOW WHILE
IT IS NOT UP TO TRUMP'S TEAM
TO DECIDE THAT IT IS NOT GOING
TO BE A FREE-FOR-ALL BY ANY
MEANS BUT IT DOES SORT OF BRING
FORTH THE POLITICAL
GRANDSTANDING THAT THE ATTEMPT
AT BRINGING WITNESSES WOULD HAVE
BECAUSE TRUMPS SIDE OF THE AISLE
COULD SAY I CALLED NANCY PELOSI
AND THEY HAVE TO GO THROUGH
THAT PROCESS WHICH GIVES
REPUBLICANS SOME FODDER AND ALSO
DISTRACTS FROM THE POINT OF THIS
ACTUAL
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL.
&gt;&gt; EXACTLY. AND DEMOCRATS FEEL
LIKE MOST PEOPLE ACCEPT THE
FACTS OF THE CASE. EVEN
MOST AMERICANS EVEN THOUGH ONLY
LIKE 60% OF AMERICANS THINK
TRUMP SHOULD BE BARRED FROM
HOLDING OFFICE WHICH IS A
SIGNIFICANT NUMBER, A FAR
GREATER PERCENTAGE OF PEOPLE
BELIEVE HE DESERVES SOME OF THE
BLAME FOR PROVOKING THIS OR FOR
INCITING IT. SO, THEY SORT OF
FEEL LIKE THEY'VE PROVEN THE
CASE AND THE QUESTION IS IF YOU
DO LOOK AT THE FIRST HUNDRED
DAYS, REMEMBER THE FIRST HUNDRED
DAYS IS ALWAYS BEEN A PRESIDENT
USUALLY ACHIEVES HIS MOST
CONSEQUENTIAL LEGISLATIVE
ACHIEVEMENTS BECAUSE YOU HAVE
SOME MOMENTUM, YOU HAVE A
HONEYMOON PERIOD
HISTORICALLY THAT THE FIRST
MOVES OF BIDEN WOULD ULTIMATELY
HURT THEM AND THEY DON'T WANT TO
LOOK DISTRACTED BY GETTING
POLITICAL VENGEANCE AND IN WORDS
OF THE HOUSE OR THE TRUMP
DEFENSE LAWYERS, SO, THERE ARE A
LOT OF VERY VALID CONSIDERATIONS
EVEN IF YOU HAD KIND OF A
REPUBLICAN SENATOR WHO WAS
TRYING TO GET ATTENTION BY
SAYING LET'S CALL HUNTER BIDEN
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE A NEW CYCLE
THAT IS DIVIDED INSTEAD OF
TALKING ABOUT
COVID RELIEF.
ONCE YOU SORT OF OPEN THE DOOR,
UNPREDICTABLE THINGS CAN HAPPEN
AND UNPREDICTABLE THINGS CAN
PLAY OUT IN WAYS THAT ARE GOOD
OR BAD
FOR DEMOCRATS.
&gt;&gt; IT LOOKS LIKE THEY MAY BE
GETTING SETTLED HERE. WE HAVE
CONFIRMATION FROM OUR REPORTING
TEAM THAT THE DECISION BY HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER JAMIE RASKIN
TO SAY HE WANTS TO CALL A
WITNESS WAS A SURPRISE TO SENATE
DEMOCRATS WHO
WERE BLINDSIDED. BEN CARDIN, THE
SENDER SAYING, YUP, THAT'S WHAT
HAPPENED THAT THEY DID NOT KNOW
THAT THESE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS WOULD BE
CALLING FOR WITNESSES. LET'S GO
NOW LIVE TO THE SENATE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; SENATE WILL BE
IN ORDER.
&gt;&gt; YOU
ARE RECOGNIZED.
&gt;&gt; SENATORS.
&gt;&gt; DONALD JOHN TRUMP BY HIS
COUNSEL IS PREPARED TO STIPULATE
THAT
IF REPRESENTATIVE HERRERA,
BUTLER, WERE TO TESTIFY UNDER
OATH AS PART OF THESE
PROCEEDINGS, THE TESTIMONY WOULD
BE CONSISTENT WITH THE STATEMENT
SHE ISSUED ON FEBRUARY 12th 2021
AND THE FORMER PRESIDENT'S
COUNSEL IS AGREEABLE TO
THE ADMISSION OF THAT PUBLIC
STATEMENT INTO EVIDENCE AT THIS
TIME.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
MR. CASTOR.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR. PRESIDENT. THE
MANAGERS ARE PREPARED TO ENTER
INTO THE AGREEMENT. I WILL NOW
READ THE STATEMENT. THIS IS THE
STATEMENT CONGRESSWOMAN FEBRUARY
1221. IN MY JANUARY
12 STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF THE
ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT I
REFERENCED A CONVERSATION HOUSE
MINORITY LEADER KEVIN McCARTHY
RELAYED TO ME THAT HE HAD HAD
WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP WHILE THE
JANUARY 6th ATTACK WAS ONGOING.
HERE ARE
THE DETAILS. WHEN McCARTHY
FINALLY REACHED THE PRESIDENT ON
JANUARY SIXTH AND ASKED HIM TO
PUBLICLY AND FORCEFULLY CALL OFF
THE RIOT, THE PRESIDENT
INITIALLY REPEATED
THE FALSEHOOD THAT IT WAS AND HE
THOUGHT THAT HAD BREACHED THE
CAPITAL. CARTHY REFUTED THAT AND
TOLD THE PRESIDENT THAT THESE
WERE TRUMP SUPPORTERS. THAT IS
WHEN ACCORDING TO McCARTHY, THE
PRESIDENT SAID, WELL, KEVIN, I
GUESS THESE PEOPLE ARE MORE
UPSET ABOUT THE ELECTION THAN
YOU ARE. SINCE I PUBLICLY
ANNOUNCED MY DECISION TO VOTE
FOR IMPEACHMENT I HAVE SHARED
THESE DETAILS AND COUNTLESS
CONVERSATIONS WITH CONSTITUENTS
AND COLLEAGUES AND MULTIPLE
TIMES THROUGH THE MEDIA AND
OTHER
PUBLIC FORUMS. I TOLD IT TO THE
DAILY NEWS OF LONGVIEW ON
JANUARY 17th, I'VE SHARED IT
WITH LOCAL COUNTY REPUBLICAN
EXECUTIVE BOARD MEMBERS AS WELL
AS OTHER CONSTITUENTS WHO ASKED
ME TO EXPLAIN MY VOTE. I SHARED
OF RESIDENTS ON MY TELEPHONE
TOWN HALL
EIGHTH. MR. PRESIDENT, I NOW
MOVE THAT THE SENATE ADMIT THE
STATEMENT INTO EVIDENCE.
&gt;&gt; WITHOUT OBJECTION THE
STATEMENT WILL BE ADMITTED INTO
EVIDENCE AND DOES EITHER PARTY
WISH TO MAKE ANY FURTHER MOTIONS
RELATED TO WITNESSES OR
DOCUMENTS AT THIS TIME? MR.
PRESIDENT, THE PRESIDENT'S
COUNSEL HAVE NO FURTHER MOTIONS.
&gt;&gt; AND MR. PRESIDENT WE HAVE NO
FURTHER MOTIONS
EITHER.
&gt;&gt; AND THE CHAIR WOULD KNOW THAT
NEITHER PARTY WISHES TO MAKE
FURTHER MOTIONS UNDER SECTION 6
OF SENATE
RESOLUTION 47.
.
&gt;&gt; I'M ADVISED THAT THE HOUSE
MANAGERS HAVE NO OBJECTION TO
THE ADMISSION
OF EVIDENCE PROPOSED TO BE
ADMITTED BY THE FORMER
PRESIDENT'S COUNSEL UNDER THE
PROVISIONS OF SECTION 8 OF
SENATE
RESOLUTION 47 AND THAT THE
PRESIDENT'S COUNSEL HAVE NO
OBJECTIONS TO THE EVIDENCE
PROPOSED TO BE ADMITTED
INTO EVIDENCE BY THE HOUSE
MANAGERS. PURSUANT TO SECTION 8
OF THE RESOLUTION AS AGREED TO
BY LEADER McCALL AND MYSELF A
FEW DAYS AGO, BOTH PARTIES HAVE
MADE TIMELY FILINGS OF
THIS EVIDENCE WITH THE SECRETARY
OF THE STENNETT AND HAVE
PROVIDED COPIES TO EACH OTHER. I
THEREFORE ASK UNANIMOUS CONSENT
THAT THEY DISPENSE 47 AND THAT
THE MATERIALS FOR BOTH PARTIES
BE ADMITTED INTO EVIDENCE
SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS WHICH
PROVIDES THAT THE ADMISSION OF
THIS DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A
CONFESSION BY EITHER PARTY AS
THE TRUTH OF THE MATTERS
ASSERTED BY THE OTHER PARTY AND
THAT EACH SENATOR SHALL DECIDE
FOR HIM OR HERSELF THE WEIGHT TO
BE GIVEN SUCH EVIDENCE. THIS
REQUEST HAS THE APPROVAL OF BOTH
PARTIES ON THE REPUBLICAN
LEADER.
&gt;&gt; WITHOUT OBJECTION IS
SO ORDERED.
IT WILL BE EQUALLY DIVIDED
BETWEEN THE MANAGERS AND THE
PART OF THE HOUSE
REPRESENTATIVES AND THE COUNSEL
FOR THE FORMER PRESIDENT
IN PURSUANT TO THE RULES OF
PROCEDURE AND PRACTICE IN THE
SENATE WHEN SITTING ON
IMPEACHMENT TRIALS THE ARGUMENT
SHALL BE OPEN AND CLOSED ON THE
PART OF THE
HOUSE REPRESENTATIVES. SO, THE
CHAIR RECOGNIZES MR. RASKIN TO
BEGIN THE PRESENTATION ON THE
PART OF THE HOUSE
REPRESENTATIVES. MR. RASKIN,
UNDER RULE 22 YOU MAY RESERVE
TIME IF
YOU WISH.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR. PRESIDENT.
MEMBERS OF THE SENATE, BEFORE I
PROCEED IT WAS SUGGESTED BY
DEFENSE COUNSEL THAT DONALD
TRUMP'S CONDUCT DURING
THE ATTACK AS DESCRIBED IN
CONGRESSWOMAN BUTLER'S STATEMENT
IS SOMEHOW NOT PART OF THE
CONSTITUTIONAL OFFENSE FOR WHICH
FORMER PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS
BEEN CHARGED I WANT TO REJECT
THAT FALSEHOOD AND THAT POLICY
IMMEDIATELY. AFTER HE KNEW THAT
VIOLENCE WAS UNDERWAY AT THE
CAPITAL, PRESIDENT TRUMP TOOK
ACTIONS THAT FURTHER INCITED THE
INSURGENTS TO BE MORE INFLAMED
AND TO TAKE EVEN MORE SELECTIVE
AND FOCUSED ACTION AGAINST
MIKE PENCE.
THE PRESIDENT SAID WELL, KEVIN,
I GUESS THESE PEOPLE, MEANING
THE MOBSTERS, THE
INSURRECTIONIST ARE MORE UPSET
ABOUT THE ELECTION THAN
YOU ARE.
HE NOT ONLY PERPETUATED THE
CONTINUING OFFENSE BUT ALSO
PROVIDES TO US HERE TODAY,
FURTHER DECISIVE EVIDENCE TO HIS
INTENT TO INCITE THE
INSURRECTION IN THE
FIRST PLACE
IT OF COURSE REFLECTS THAT THEY
HAVE
NO DEFENSE TO THE OUTRAGEOUS
SCANDALOUS AND UNCONSTITUTIONAL
CONDUCT IN THE MIDDLE OF A
VIOLENT ASSAULT ON THE CAPITAL
THAT HE INCITED. SENATORS, THINK
ABOUT IT FOR
A SECOND. SAY YOU LIGHT A FIRE
AND YOU ARE CHARGED
WITH ARSON. THE DEFENSE COUNSEL
SAYS EVERYTHING THAT I DID AFTER
THE FIRE STARTED IS IRRELEVANT
AND THE COURT WOULD REJECT THAT
IMMEDIATELY AND SAY THAT IS NOT
TRUE AT ALL. IT IS EXTREMELY
RELEVANT TO WHETHER OR NOT YOU
COMMITTED
THE CRIME. IF YOU RUN OVER AND
TRY TO PUT OUT THE FLAMES IF YOU
GET LOTS OF WATER AND SAY HELP,
HELP, THERE'S A FIRE, YOU CALL
FOR HELP, A COURT WILL INFER,
THEY COULD INFER THAT YOU DIDN'T
INTEND FOR THE FIRE TO BE LIT IN
THE FIRST PLACE. THEY WOULD
ACCEPT YOUR DEFENSE, PERHAPS,
THAT IT WAS ALL AN ACCIDENT.
ACCIDENTS HAPPEN WITH FIRE. BUT
ON THE OTHER HAND WITH A FIRE
ERUPTS, YOU GO AND YOU POUR MORE
FUEL ON IT. STANDBY AND YOU
WATCH
IT, GLEEFULLY. ANY REASONABLE
PERSON WILL INFER THAT YOU NOT
ONLY INTENDED THE FIRE TO START
BUT THAT ONCE IT GOT STARTED AND
BEGAN TO SPREAD, YOU INTENDED TO
CONTINUE TO KEEP THE FIRE GOING.
AND THAT IS EXACTLY WHERE WE
ARE, MY FRIENDS. OF COURSE YOUR
CONDUCT WHILE A CRIME IS ONGOING
IS RELEVANT TO YOUR
BOTH TO THE CONTINUATION OF THE
OFFENSE, BUT ALSO DIRECTLY
RELEVANT, DIRECTLY ELIMINATING
TO WHAT YOUR PURPOSE WAS
ORIGINALLY. WHAT WAS YOUR
INTENT? IN ANY COURT IN THE LAND
WOULD LAUGH OUT OF COURT, ANY
CRIMINAL DEFENDANT WHO SAID WHAT
I DID AFTER I ALLEGEDLY KILLED
THAT PERSON IS IRRELEVANT TO
WHETHER OR NOT I INTENDED TO
KILL THEM. I MEAN, COME ON.
DONALD TRUMP'S REFUSAL NOT ONLY
TO SEND HELP BUT ALSO TO
CONTINUE TO FURTHER FIGHT THE
INSURGENTS AGAINST HIS OWN VICE
PRESIDENT, HIS OWN VICE
PRESIDENT, PROVIDES FURTHER
DECISIVE EVIDENCE OF BOTH HIS
INTENT TO START THIS VIOLENT
INSURRECTION AND HIS CONTINUED
INCITEMENT ONCE THE ATTACK HAD
BEGUN TO OVERRIDE
THE CAPITAL. ALL RIGHT SENATORS,
THAT WAS IN
RESPONSE TO THIS NEW EVIDENTIARY
PARTICLE THAT CAME IN. BUT IN MY
CLOSING I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
YOUR REMARKABLE ATTENTION AND
YOUR SERIOUSNESS OF PURPOSE
BEFITTING YOUR OFFICE. WE HAVE
OFFERED YOU OVERWHELMING AND
IRREFUTABLE AND CERTAINLY
UNREFUTED EVIDENCE THAT FORMER
PRESIDENT TRUMP INCITED THIS
INSURRECTION AGAINST US. TO
QUOTE THE STATEMENT
REPRESENTATIVE LIZ CHENEY MADE
IN JANUARY, QUOTE, ON JANUARY
SIX, 2021, A VIOLENT MOB
ATTACKED THE UNITED STATES
CAPITAL TO OBSTRUCT THE PROCESS
OF OUR DEMOCRACY AND STOP THE
COUNTING OF PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTORAL VOTES. THIS
INSURRECTION CAUSED INJURY,
DEATH AND DESTRUCTION IN THE
MOST SACRED SPACE IN OUR PUBLIC.
SHE CONTINUED. REPRESENTATIVE
CHENEY CONTINUED, MUCH MORE WILL
BECOME CLEAR
IN COMING DAYS AND WEEKS. BUT
WHAT WE KNOW NOW IS ENOUGH. THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
SUMMONED THIS MOB, ASSEMBLED
THIS MOB AND LIT THE FLAME OF
THIS ATTACK. EVERYTHING THAT
FOLLOWED WAS HIS DOING. NONE OF
THIS WOULD HAVE HAPPENED WITHOUT
THE PRESIDENT. THE PRESIDENT
COULD'VE IMMEDIATELY AND
FORCEFULLY INTERVENED TO STOP
THE VIOLENCE. HE DID NOT. THERE
HAS NEVER BEEN A GREATER
BETRAYAL BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES OF THE OFFICE AND
HIS OATH TO THE CONSTITUTION. I
WILL VOTE TO IMPEACH THE
PRESIDENT. REPRESENTATIVE CHENEY
WAS RIGHT. SHE BASED HER VOTE ON
THE FACTS, ON THE EVIDENCE AND
ON THE CONSTITUTION. AND
EVIDENCE, THE VIDEO,
DOCUMENTARY, EYEWITNESSES, ONLY
GROWN STRONGER AND STRONGER AND
MORE DETAILED WRITE UP TO TODAY,
RIGHT UP TO 10 MINUTES AGO. OVER
THE COURSE OF THE SENATE TRIAL.
AND I HAVE NO DOUBT THAT YOU ALL
NOTICED THAT DESPITE THE VARIOUS
PROPAGANDA REELS AND SO ON,
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LAWYERS HAVE
SAID ALMOST NOTHING TO CONTEST
OR OVERCOME THE ACTUAL EVIDENCE
OF FORMER PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
CONDUCT THAT WE HAVE PRESENTED
MUCH LESS HAVE THEY BROUGHT
THEIR CLIENT FORWARD TO TELL US
HIS SIDE OF THE STORY. WE SENT
THEM A LETTER LAST WEEK, WHICH
THEY REJECTED. THE FORMER
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES REFUSED TO COME AND TELL
US. AND I ASK ANY OF YOU, IF YOU
WERE CHARGED WITH INCITING
VIOLENT INSURRECTION AGAINST OUR
COUNTRY AND YOU WERE FALSELY
ACCUSED, WOULD YOU COME AND
TESTIFY? I KNOW I WOULD. I WOULD
BE THERE AT 7:00 IN THE MORNING
WAITING FOR THE DOORS TO OPEN.
I'M SURE THAT'S TRUE OF 100
SENATORS IN THIS ROOM AND I HOPE
IT IS TRUE OF 100 SENATORS IN
THIS ROOM. SENATE WAS LECTURED
SEVERAL TIMES YESTERDAY ABOUT
CANCEL CULTURE. THOUGH NOT EVEN
TWO
WEEKS AGO, THE PRESIDENT'S MOST
RELIABLE SUPPORTERS IN THE
HOUSE, I'M SORRY, NOT THE
PRESIDENT, THE FORMER
PRESIDENT'S MOST RELIABLE
SUPPORTERS IN THE HOUSE TRIED TO
CANCEL OUT REPRESENTATIVE CHENEY
BECAUSE OF HER COURAGEOUS AND
PATRIOTIC DEFENSE OF THE
REPUBLIC AND THE TRUTH AND THE
CONSTITUTION, THEY TRIED TO
STRIP HER OF HER LEADING ROLE AS
CHAIR OF THE HOUSE REPUBLICAN
CONFERENCE. BUT YOU KNOW WHAT? I
HOPE EVERYBODY TAKES A SECOND
REFLECT ON THIS. THE CONFIDENCE
REJECTED THIS PLAINLY
RETALIATORY AND COWARDLY ATTEMPT
TO PUNISH HER FOR TELLING THE
TRUTH TO HER CONSTITUENTS AND
HER COUNTRY AND VOTING
FOR IMPEACHMENT. WHO SAYS YOU
CAN'T STAND UP AGAINST BULLIES?
WHO SAYS? IN MY MIND, LIZ CHENEY
IS A HERO FOR STANDING UP FOR
THE TRUTH. AND RESISTING THIS
RETALIATORY CANCEL CULTURE. BUT
SHE BEAT THEM ON A VOTE OF 145
-61, MORE THAN 2-1 VOTE. YOU
KNOW, BEN FRANKLIN, A GREAT
CHAMPION IN INDICTMENT AND AN
ENEMY OF POLITICAL FANATICISM
AND COWARDICE AND OF COURSE
ANOTHER GREAT PHILADELPHIAN ONCE
WROTE THIS. I HAVE OBSERVED THAT
WRONG IS ALWAYS GROWING MORE
WRONG UNTIL THERE IS NO BEARING
IT ANYMORE. AND THAT RIGHT,
HOWEVER OPPOSED, COMES RIGHT AT
LAST. COMES RIGHT AT LAST. THINK
ABOUT THAT. THIS IS AMERICA.
HOME OF THE BRAVE, LAND OF THE
FREE. THE AMERICA OF BEN
FRANKLIN
WHO SAID YOU MAKE YOURSELF A
SHEEP, THE WOLVES WILL EACH YOU.
DON'T MAKE YOURSELF A SHEEP. THE
WOLVES WILL EACH YOU. THE
AMERICA OF THOMAS JEFFERSON WHO
SAID IN ANOTHER DIFFICULT
MOMENT, A LITTLE PATIENCE AND WE
SHALL SEE THE REIGN OF WHICH IS
PASSOVER THEIR SPIRITS DISSOLVE
AND THE PEOPLE RECOVERING THEIR
TRUE SIGHT RESTORE THEIR
GOVERNMENT TO ITS
TRUE PRINCIPLES. THE MIND, ONCE
ENLIGHTENED, CANNOT AGAIN
BECOME DARK. NOW, WE SHOWED YOU
HOUR AFTER HOUR OF REAL-TIME
EVIDENCE DEMONSTRATING EVERY
STEP OF DONALD TRUMP'S
CONSTITUTIONAL CRIME. WE SHOWED
YOU HOW HE INDOCTRINATED THE MOB
ABOUT HOW THE ELECTION HE LOST
BY MORE THAN 7
MILLION VOTES
EIGHT FEDERAL JUDGES HE HIMSELF
NAMED TO THE BENCH, ALL FOUND NO
BASIS IN FACT OR LAW FOR HIS
OUTLANDISH AND ARRANGED
INVENTIONS AND CONCOCTIONS ABOUT
THE ELECTION. IN THE MEANTIME,
PRESIDENT TRUMP TRIED TO BULLY
STATE-LEVEL OFFICIALS TO COMMIT
A FRAUD ON
THE PUBLIC BY LITERALLY FINDING
VOTES. WE EXAMINE THE KEY STUDY
OF GEORGIA WHERE HE CALLED TO
THREATEN REPUBLICAN BRAD TO
FIND HIM 11,780 VOTES, THAT'S
ALL HE WANTED HE SAID. 11,780
VOTES. DON'T WE ALL? THAT'S ALL
HE WANTED TO NULLIFY BIDEN'S
VICTORY AND TO WIN THE ELECTION.
HE ENDED UP WITH SAVAGE DEATH
THREATS AGAINST HIM AND HIS
FAMILY TELLING HIM HE DESERVED A
FIRING SQUAD. ANOTHER ELECTION
OFFICIAL URGED TRUMP TO CUT IT
OUT WHERE PEOPLE WOULD GET HURT
AND KILLED. A WARNING A DAY. HE
ENDED UP SAYING THAT HIM AND HIS
FAMILY SUPPORTED DONALD TRUMP,
GAVE HIM MONEY AND NOW TRUMP
THROUGH US UNDER THE BUS. WE SAW
WHAT HAPPENED IN LANSING,
MICHIGAN WITH THE STREETS MOB HE
CULTIVATED WHICH LED TO TWO
SHOCKING C JUST AND A CRIMINAL
CONSPIRACY BY EXTREME THIS TO
LIKELY GET
GOVERNOR WHITMER.
AND OVERTHROW THEIR POPULAR
ELECTION OF VOTES AND REPLACE
THEM WITH TRUMP ELECTORS, WE
SHOWED YOU THE PROCESS OF
SUMMONING THE MOB, REACHING OUT,
URGING PEOPLE TO COME TO
WASHINGTON FOR A WILD TIME. AS
WE CELEBRATE PRESIDENTS' DAY ON
MONDAY, THINK, IMAGINE, IS THERE
ANOTHER PRESIDENT IN OUR HISTORY
WHO WOULD URGE SUPPORTERS TO
COME TO WASHINGTON FOR A WILD
TIME? YOU SAW HOW
HE EMBRACED THE ELEMENTS LIKE
THE PROUD BOYS WHO ARE TOLD IN A
NATIONALLY TELEVISED
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE DEBATE TO
STAND BACK AND STANDBY WHICH
BECAME THEIR
OFFICIAL SLOGAN AS THEY
CONVERGED ON WASHINGTON WITH
OTHER EXTREMIST GROUPS AND
COMPETED TO BE THE LEAD STORM
TROOPERS OF THE ATTACK ON
THIS BUILDING. YOU SAW THE
ASSEMBLY OF THE MOB ON JANUARY
SIX. AND HOW BEAUTIFUL THAT
ANGRY MOB MUST HAVE LOOKED TO
DONALD TRUMP AS HE PEERED DOWN
WITH THE SEAL OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
EMBLAZONED ON. HE
WAS -- THEY WERE ARMED TO THE
TEETH AND READY TO FIGHT AND
OTHER SUPPORTERS, ALL OF THEM
SAYING, STOP THE STEEL RIGHT
NOW. AND HE SAID HE WAS GOING TO
MARCH WITH THEM TO THE CAPITAL,
EVEN THOUGH THE PERMIT FOR THE
RALLY SPECIFICALLY FOR BETA
MARCH BUT HE SAID
HE WOULD MARCH WITH THEM GIVING
THEM MORE COMFORT THAN WHAT THEY
WERE DOING WAS LEGITIMATE AND
OKAY. BUT OF COURSE HE STAYED
BACK AS HE PRESUMABLY DIDN'T
WANT TO BE TOO CLOSE TO THE
ACTION AT THE CAPITAL AS THE
LAWYERS
CALLED IT. NOT IN INSURRECTION
THEY URGED US YESTERDAY. IT IS
AN ACTION. HE DIDN'T WANT TO BE
TOO CLOSE TO THE ACTION WHEN ALL
HELL WAS ABOUT TO BREAK LOOSE.
NOW, INCITEMENT , AS WE
DISCUSSED, REQUIRES AN
INHERENTLY FACT-BASED
EVIDENTIARY INQUIRY. AND THIS IS
WHAT
WE DID. WE GAVE YOU MANY HOURS
OF SPECIFIC, FACTUAL DETAILS
ABOUT
TO USE CHENEY'S WORDS, THE
PRESIDENT, HOW THE PRESIDENT
SUMMONED
THE MOB
, ASSEMBLED THE MOB, INCITED IT,
LIT THE MATCH, SENDING THEM OFF
TO THE CAPITAL WHERE THEY
THOUGHT AS THEY YELLED OUT THAT
THEY HAD BEEN INVITED BY THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
AND THEN, OF COURSE, THEY
UNLEASHED UNPARALLELED, VIOLENT
AGAINST OUR OVERWHELMED AND
BESIEGED BUT HEROIC POLICE
OFFICERS
NOW I'M CONVINCED MOST SENATORS
MUST BE CONVINCED BY THIS
OVERWHELMING AND SPECIFIC DETAIL
BECAUSE MOST AMERICANS ARE. BUT
SAY YOU STILL HAVE YOUR DOUBTS.
YOU THINK THE PRESIDENT REALLY
THOUGHT THAT HE WAS SENDING
HIS FOLLOWERS TO PARTICIPATE IN
A PEACEFUL, NONVIOLENT RALLY.
THE KIND THAT MIGHT'VE BEEN
ORGANIZED BY
JULIAN BOND TO MY OPPOSING
COUNSEL
BROUGHT UP. OR JOHN LEWIS FOR
THE STUDENT NONVIOLENT DONATING
COMMITTEE. MAYBE THE PRESIDENT
REALLY THOUGHT THIS WAS GOING TO
BE LIKE THE MARCH ON WASHINGTON
AND DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING WHO
SAID  NONVIOLENCE IS THE ANSWER
TO THE CRUCIAL MORAL AND
POLITICAL QUESTIONS OF OUR TIME
SO LET'S STAY YOU ARE STILL
FLIRTING WITH THE IDEA THAT
DONALD TRUMP'S CONDUCT WAS
TOTALLY APPROPRIATE AS HE
PROCLAIMED RIGHT OFF THE BAT AND
HE'S THE INCIDENT INNOCENT
VICTIM OF A MASS ACCIDENT OR
CATASTROPHE LIKE A FIRE OR A
FLOOD AS WE WERE INVITED TO
FRAME IT ON
OUR OPENING-DAY BY DISTINGUISHED
COCOUNSEL OR OPPOSING COUNSEL
AND YOU THINK, MAYBE, WE ARE
JUST LOOKING FOR SOMEBODY
TO BLAME FOR THIS NIGHTMARE AND
CATASTROPHE. WE ARE JUST LOOKING
FOR SOMEONE TO BLAME. WELL,
HERE'S THE KEY QUESTION THEN IF
YOU ARE IN
THAT CATEGORY. HOW DID DONALD
TRUMP REACT WHEN HE LEARNED THE
VIOLENT STORMING OF THE CAPITAL
AND THE THREATS TO SENATORS,
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE AND HIS OWN
VICE PRESIDENT? AS WELL AS THE
IMAGES HE SAW ON TV OF THE
PUMMELING AND BEATING AND
HARASSMENT OF OUR
POLICE OFFICERS? DID HE SPRING
INTO ACTION TO STOP THE VIOLENCE
AND
SAVE US? DID HE EVEN WONDER
ABOUT HIS OWN SECURITY SINCE AN
OUT-OF-CONTROL ANTIGOVERNMENT
MOB COULD COME AFTER HIM TOO?
DID HE QUICKLY TRIED TO GET IN
TOUCH WITH OR DENOUNCE THE PROUD
BOYS? THE OATH KEEPERS? THE
RALLY ORGANIZERS? AND EVERYONE
ON THE EXTREME RIGHT COULD TELL
THEM THAT THIS WAS NOT WHAT HE
HAD IN MIND. IT WAS A BIG
MISTAKE. CALL IT OFF AS
REPRESENTATIVE GALLAGHER BEGGED
HIM TO DO ON NATIONAL
TELEVISION. NO.
HE DELIGHTED IN IT. HE REVELED
IN IT. HE EXALTED IN IT. HE
COULD NOT UNDERSTAND WHY THE
PEOPLE AROUND HIM DID NOT SHARE
HIS DELIGHT. AND THEN A LONG
PERIOD OF SILENCE ENSUED WHILE
THE MOB BEAT THE DAYLIGHTS OUT
OF POLICE OFFICERS AND INVADED
THIS BUILDING AS YOU SAW IN
SECURITY FOOTAGE AND PROCEEDED
TO HUNT DOWN VICE PRESIDENT MIKE
PENCE AS A TRAITOR AND ANNOUNCED
AND CURSED SPEAKER PELOSI, BOTH
OF WHOM YOU HEARD MOB MEMBERS
SAY THEY WANTED TO KILL. THEY
WERE BOTH IN REAL DANGER. AND
OUR GOVERNMENT COULD HAVE BEEN
THROWN INTO ABSOLUTE TURMOIL
WITHOUT THE HEROISM OF OUR
OFFICERS AND THE BRAVERY AND
COURAGE OF A LOT OF PEOPLE IN
THIS ROOM. HERE'S WHAT ANTHONY
GONZALEZ OF OHIO SAID. HE'S A
FORMER PRO FOOTBALL PLAYER. WE
ARE EMPLOYING THE PRESIDENT TO
HELP
TO STAND
HE WAS NOWHERE TO BE FOUND. AND
AS I'VE EMPHASIZED THIS MORNING
THAT DERELICTION OF DUTY, THAT
DESERTION OF DUTY WAS CENTRAL TO
HIS INCITEMENT OF INSURRECTION
AND AN EXTRA GOAL FROM IT.
INEXTRICABLE.
BOUND TOGETHER. IT REVEALS HIS
STATE OF MIND THAT DAY, WHAT HE
WAS THINKING AS HE PROVOKED THE
MOB TO VIOLENCE AND FURTHER
VIOLENCE, IT SHOWS HOW HE
PERPETUATED HIS CONTINUING
OFFENSE ON JANUARY SIX, HIS
COURSE
OF CONDUCT CHARGED IN THE
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT AS HE
FURTHER INCITED THE MOB DURING
THE ATTACK, AIMING IT AT VICE
PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE HIMSELF,
WHILE FAILING TO QUELL IT AS
COMMANDER IN
CHIEF OR HIS REAL ROLE, THAT
DAY, INSIGHT OR IN CHIEF. AND IT
POWERFULLY DEMONSTRATES
THAT THAT HE KNEW OF COURSE THAT
VIOLENCE WAS FORESEEABLE. THAT
IT WAS PREDICTABLE, THAT DAY
SINCE HE WAS
NOT SURPRISED AND THROUGH HIS
OMISSION AND COMMISSION THAT DAY
HE ABUSED HIS
OFFICE BY
SIDING WITH THE INSURRECTIONIST
AT ALMOST EVERY POINT RATHER
THAN WITH THE CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES. RATHER THAN WITH
THE CONSTITUTION. IN JUST
A MOMENT MY COLLEAGUE WILL
ADDRESS PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
CONDUCT, HIS ACTIONS AND
INACTIONS, HIS CULPABLE STATE OF
MIND DURING THE ATTACK AS HE
WILL ESTABLISH YESTERDAY'S
EXPLOSIVE REVELATIONS ABOUT
HOUSE MINORITY LEADER KEVIN
McCARTHY'S DESPERATE CALL TO
TRUMP AND TRUMPS TRULY
ASTOUNDING REACTION CONFIRMED
THAT TRUMP WAS DOING NOTHING TO
HELP THE PEOPLE IN THIS ROOM OR
THIS BUILDING. IT IS NOW CLEAR
BEYOND DOUBT THAT TRUMP
SUPPORTED THE ACTIONS OF THE MOB
AND SO HE MUST BE CONVICTED. IT
IS SIMPLE. HE KNEW EXACTLY HOW
COMBUSTIBLE THE SITUATION WAS,
HE KNEW THERE WERE MANY PEOPLE
IN THE CROWD WHO WERE READY TO
JUMP INTO ACTION TO ENGAGE IN
VIOLENCE AT ANY SIGNAL THAT HE
NEEDED THEM TO FIGHT LIKE HELL
TO STOP  THE STEEL AND THEN HE
AIMED THEM RIGHT HERE WHERE HE
TOLD
THEM THE STEAL WAS OCCURRING.
THE INJURED AND
KILLED PEOPLE, CONVINCED THAT
THEY WERE ACTING ON HIS
INSTRUCTIONS AND WITH HIS
APPROVAL AND PROTECTION. AND
WHILE THAT HAPPENED, HE FURTHER
INCITED THEM WHILE FAILING TO
DEFEND US. IF THAT IS NOT GROUND
PORK AND JET CONVICTION, IF THAT
IS NOT MISDEMEANOR AGAINST THE
REPUBLIC AND THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA, THEN NOTHING IS.
PRESIDENT TRUMP MUST
BE CONVICT DID FOR THE SAFETY
AND SECURITY OF OUR DEMOCRACY
AND OUR PEOPLE. MISTRESSES
PELINI. --
MR. SICILY.
&gt;&gt;
MR. PRESIDENT, AS DISTINGUISHED
SENATORS, AS WE'VE DEMONSTRATED,
THERE IS OVERWHELMING EVIDENCE
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP INCITED THE
VIOLENCE AND NEW VIOLENCE WAS
FORESEEABLE ON JANUARY SIX. HE
KNEW THAT MANY IN THE CROWD WERE
POSED FOR VIOLENCE AT HIS URGING
AND IN FACT MANY OF THE SEA AND
THOUSANDS OF THE CROWD WERE
WEARING BODY ARMOR AND HELMETS
AND HOLDING STICKS AND
FLAGPOLES. AND THEN HE NOT ONLY
PROVOKED THAT VARIES IN
CROWD, BUT AIMED THEM AT THE
CAPITAL. HE LITERALLY POINTED AT
THIS BUILDING, AT US, DURING HIS
SPEECH. HE POINTED TO THE
BUILDING WHERE CONGRESS WAS
GOING TO CERTIFY THE ELECTION
RESULTS AND WHERE HE KNEW THE
VICE PRESIDENT HIMSELF WAS
PRESIDING OVER THE
PROCESS. NOW, NO ONE IS
SUGGESTING THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
INTENDED EVERY DETAIL OF WHAT
HAPPENED ON JANUARY SIXTH. BUT
WHEN HE DIRECTED THE SEA OF
THOUSANDS BEFORE HIM WHO WERE
REPORTEDLY READY TO ENGAGE IN
REAL VIOLENCE, WHEN HE TOLD THEM
TO FIGHT LIKE HELL, HE INCITED
VIOLENCE, TARGETED AT THE
CAPITAL  COMMAND HE MOST
CERTAINLY FORESAW IT.
MY COLLEAGUE WILL STAND UP AFTER
ME AND WALK YOU THROUGH THE
OVERWHELMING EVIDENCE THAT
SUPPORTS THOSE CLAIMS. I WANT
TO STOP AND START BY TALKING
ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED AFTER THAT.
THERE WAS A LOT OF DISCUSSION
YESTERDAY ABOUT WHAT THE
PRESIDENT KNEW AND WHEN HE KNEW
IT. THERE ARE CERTAIN THINGS
THAT WE DO NOT KNOW ABOUT WHAT
THE PRESIDENT DID THAT DAY.
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT, THAT IS
FORMER PRESIDENT TRUMP, HAS
REMAINED SILENT ABOUT WHAT HE
WAS DOING DURING ONE OF THE
BLOODIEST ATTACKS ON OUR CAPITAL
SINCE 1812. DESPITE A FULL AND
FAIR OPPORTUNITY TO COME
FORWARD, HE'S REFUSED TO COME
AND TELL
HIS STORY. AS MANAGER RASKIN
SAID, WE WOULD ALL DO THAT. IN
FACT, I WOULD INSIST
ON IT. IF I WERE ACCUSED OF A
GRAVE AND SERIOUS CRIME THAT I
WAS INNOCENT OF, I WOULD DEMAND
THE RIGHT TO TELL MY SIDE OF THE
STORY. PRESIDENT TRUMP DECLINED.
BUT THERE ARE CERTAIN FACTS THAT
ARE UNDISPUTED THAT WE KNOW TO
BE TRUE DESPITE THE PRESIDENTS
REESE'S REFUSAL
TO TESTIFY.
PURSE PRESIDENT TRUMP AND HIS
COUNSEL HAVE RESORTED TO
ARGUMENTS THAT THE EVIDENCE
PRESENTED WAS SOMEHOW
MANUFACTURED OR HIDDEN FROM IT
FROM THEM.
WHEN THEY WERE ENTITLED TO HAVE
THEM UNDERSTAND IN RESOLUTION 47
AND THEY CANNOT AND HAVE NOT
ALLEGED OTHERWISE. AS TO THEIR
DESPERATE CLAIM THAT EVIDENCE
WAS SOMEHOW MANUFACTURED, THEY
HAVE NOW ALLEGED THAT ONE TWEET
FROM THEIR CLIENT WAS ACTUALLY
INACCURATE. WE GOT THESE TWEETS
WHICH ARE STATEMENTS FROM THE
FORMER PRESIDENT FROM A PART
PUBLIC ARCHIVE AND THEY ARE
ALL CORRECT.
ABOUT WHAT THE PRESIDENT KNEW
THAT AND WHEN HE
KNEW IT.
THAT IS SIMPLY NOT TRUE. AS YOU
CAN SEE HERE FROM JUST AFTER 12
P.M. TO JUST BEFORE TWO P.M.,
PRESIDENT TRUMP DELIVERED HIS
STATEMENT THAT THE RALLY WHICH
INCITED INITIAL WAVE OF
PROTESTERS COMING DOWN TO THE
CAPITAL. AND HIS SPEECH WAS
STILL ONGOING AND YOU SAW THE
EVIDENCE OF PEOPLE BROADCASTING
THAT ON
THEIR PHONES. A MUCH
LARGER WAVE CAME TOWARD US AT
THE CAPITAL. RIPPING DOWN
SCAFFOLDING AND TRIGGERING CALLS
FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE.
30 MINUTES LATER AT 1:49 P.M. AS
THE VIOLENCE INTENSIFIED,
PRESIDENT TRUMP TWEETED A VIDEO
OF HIS REMARKS AT
THE RALLY WE WILL NOT TAKE IT
ANYMORE AND THAT'S WHAT THIS IS
ALL ABOUT. DURING THE HALF HOUR
FOLLOWING THAT TWEET, THE
SITUATION HERE DRASTICALLY
DETERIORATED. THEY REACH THE
CAPITAL BARRIERS THAN ITS STEPS,
THAN THE
COMPLEX ITSELF. BY 212, THE
INSURRECTIONIST MOB HAD
OVERWHELMED THE POLICE AND
STARTED THEIR VIOLENT ATTACK ON
THE CAPITAL. AS YOU ALL KNOW,
THIS ATTACKER HEARD AND PLAYED
OUT ON LIVE TELEVISION. EVERY
MAJOR NETWORK WAS
SHOWING IT. WE'VE SHOWN YOU
DURING THE COURSE OF THIS TRIAL,
SIDE-BY-SIDE, EXACTLY WHAT THE
PRESIDENT WOULD'VE SEEN ON TV OR
HIS TWITTER ACCOUNT. WE'VE ALSO
SHOWN YOU THAT HE WOULD'VE SEEN
AROUND 2:12 P.M. IMAGES OF ICED
PENS BEING RUSHED OFF THE SENATE
FLOOR. NOW I WON'T REPLAY ALL OF
THAT FOR YOU, BUT FOR TIMING
PURPOSES, HERE'S THE FOOTAGE
REACTING TO VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
LEADING THE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; IT
SEEMED LIKE THEY JUST DID THAT
REALLY QUICKLY.
&gt;&gt; YES THEY DID, THAT'S EXACTLY
WHAT HAPPENED. I SAW THE
MOTIONS TOO.
&gt;&gt; DEFENSE COUNSEL SEEMS TO
SUGGEST
THAT SOMEHOW THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES WAS NOT AWARE
OF THIS. THE PRESIDENT HAD NO
IDEA THAT HIS VICE PRESIDENT HAD
BEEN EVACUATED FROM THE SENATE
FLOOR FOR HIS SAFETY BECAUSE
VIOLIN WRITERS HAD BROKEN INTO
THE CAPITAL AND THOUSANDS MORE
COMING. AND WITH THE CAPITAL
POLICE COMPLETELY OVERWHELMED.
THIS WAS ON LIVE TELEVISION. SO
DEFENSE COUNSEL SUGGESTING THAT
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES KNEW LESS ABOUT THIS THAN
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. THIS IS
JUST
NOT POSSIBLE. THAT THE SECRET
SERVICE FAILED TO MENTION THAT
THE VICE PRESIDENT WAS BEING
RUSHED FOR HIS OWN PROTECTION.
BUT NOBODY IN THE WHITE HOUSE
THOUGHT TO ALERT HIM. AND NONE
OF OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
RAISED A CONCERN TO THE
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF THAT THE VICE
PRESIDENT WAS BEING EVACUATED
FROM THE SENATE FLOOR AS A
VIOLENT MOB ASSAULTED THE
CAPITAL. THAT SIMPLY CANNOT BE.
AND WITH EACH PASSING MINUTE ON
THE TIMELINE OF EVENTS ON
JANUARY SIXTH, IT GROWS MORE AND
MORE INCONCEIVABLE. THAT'S
CONTINUE FORWARD IN TIME.
BETWEEN 212 22:24, THE SENATE
RECESSED, SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI
WAS USHERED OFF THE FLOOR, THE
CAPITAL POLICE ANNOUNCED A
BREACH OF A LOCKDOWN AND THE
INSURRECTIONIST MOB BEGAN
CHANTING, HANG THE MIKE PENCE.
IT WAS UNFOLDING ON LIVE TV IN
FRONT OF THE ENTIRE WORLD. SO
AGAIN, LET ME ASK YOU, DOES IT
STRIKE YOU AS CREDIBLE THAT
NOBODY, NOT A
SINGLE PERSON INFORMED THE
PRESIDENT THAT HIS VICE
PRESIDENT HAD BEEN EVACUATED OR
THAT THE PRESIDENT DIDN'T
AT THE TELEVISION OR HIS TWITTER
ACCOUNT AND LEARN ABOUT THE
EVENTS THAT WERE HAPPENING?
REMEMBER, THIS WAS THE DAY OF
THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE. REMEMBER,
HIS OBSESSION WITH STOPPING THE
CERTIFICATION. IT IS JUST NOT
CREDIBLE THAT
NO POINT, KNEW HIS VICE
PRESIDENT WAS IN THIS BUILDING
AND WAS IN REAL DANGER.
SENATORS, I SUBMIT TO YOU THESE
FACTS, THIS TIMELINE IS
UNDISPUTED. AT 224 P.M. AFTER
WRITERS REACHED THE BARRIERS
COME AFTER CALLS FOR ASSISTANCE,
AFTER WRITERS STORMED THE
BUILDING, AFTER VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE WAS RUSHED FROM THE SENATE
FLOOR AND JUST BEFORE VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE WAS FURTHER
EVACUATED FOR HIS SAFETY,
PRESIDENT TRUMP DECIDED TO
ATTACK HIS OWN VICE PRESIDENT ON
TWITTER. THE UNDISPUTED FACTS
CONFIRM THAT NOT ONLY MUST
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAVE BEEN AWARE
OF THE VICE PRESIDENT'S DANGER
BUT HE STILL SENT OUT A TWEET
ATTACKING HIM, FURTHER INCITING
THE VERY MOB THAT WAS JUST A FEW
FEET INSIDE OF THIS
BUILDING. THE VICE PRESIDENT WAS
THERE WITH HIS FAMILY. HE WAS IN
DANGER FOR HIS LIFE. THEY WERE
CHANTING, HANG MIKE PENCE AND
HAD ERECTED A
NOOSE OUTSIDE AND AS WE SHOWN
THE MOB RESPONDED TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S ATTACK INSTANTLY. THE
TWEET WAS READ ALOUD ON A
BULLHORN IF YOU REMEMBER THAT
VIDEO. INSURRECTIONIST AGAIN
CHANTING ABOUT MIKE
PENCE. AND THEY FURTHER INSIDE
OF THE MOB IN REAL TIME TO
TARGET THE VICE PRESIDENT WITH
KNOWLEDGE THAT THE INSURRECTION
WAS ONGOING AND THAT IS OF
COURSE INCLUDED IN THE CONDUCT
CHARGE
IT IS IMPEACHABLE CONDUCT THAT
CONTINUED DURING THE COURSE OF
THE ASSAULT AND IT IS PART OF
THE CONSTITUTIONAL CRIME AND WAS
ENTIRELY AND COMPLETELY APART OF
HIS INDEFENSIBLE FAILURE TO
PROTECT
THE CONGRESS. NOW, THERE'S BEEN
SOME CONFUSION AS TO THE PHONE
CALL I REFERENCED WITH SENATOR
LEE SO I WANT TO BE CLEAR ABOUT
CERTAIN FACTS THAT ARE NOT IN
DISPUTE. FIRST, SENATOR LEE HAS
CONFIRMED THAT THE CALL OCCURRED
AT 226 P.M. SO I HAVE ADDED THAT
TO THE TIMELINE ABOVE. REMEMBER,
BY THIS PHONE CALL, THE VICE
PRESIDENT HAS JUST BEEN
EVACUATED ON LIVE TELEVISION FOR
HIS OWN SAFETY. AND DONALD TRUMP
HAD COME AFTER THAT, TWEETED AN
ATTACK
ON HIM WHICH THE INSURGENTS READ
ON A BULLHORN AND A FEW MINUTES
AFTER DONALD TRUMP'S TWEET, HE
DIDN'T REACH OUT TO CHECK ON THE
VICE PRESIDENT'S SAFETY. HE
CALLED THE SENATOR TO ASK ABOUT
DELAYING THE CERTIFICATION. THE
CALL
WAS INTERRUPTED,
THE SENATOR HAS SINCE EXPLAINED,
AND I QUOTE, I LOOKED AT THE
PHONE AND IT SAID THE WHITE
HOUSE ON IT. I SAID HELLO? THE
PRESIDENT SAID A FEW WORDS, I
SAID MR. PRESIDENT, THEY ARE
TAKING THE VICE PRESIDENT OUT
AND THEY WANT ME TO GET OFF THE
PHONE AND I'VE GOT TO GO,". THAT
WAS HIS SECOND EVACUATION THAT
DAY. A MINUTE LATER, LIVE FEEDS
DOCUMENTED THEM IN SURGING MIKE
PENCE IS A TRAITOR. AT THIS
POINT, EVEN IF SOMEHOW HE HAD
MISSED IT EARLIER, IT IS
INCONCEIVABLE THAT THE FORMER
PRESIDENT WAS UNAWARE THAT THE
VICE PRESIDENT WAS IN DANGER.
AND WHAT DOES THE PRESIDENT DO
AFTER HEARING THAT? DOES HE RUSH
TO SECURE THE CAPITAL? DOES HE
DO ANYTHING TO QUELL THE MOB?
DOES HE CALL HIS VICE PRESIDENT
TO CHECK ON HIS SAFETY? WE ALL
KNOW THE ANSWER TO THOSE
QUESTIONS TOO. THERE CAN BE NO
DISPUTE. HE TOOK NONE OF THOSE
STEPS. NOT A
SINGLE ONE. EVEN AFTER LEARNING
THAT SENATORS WERE BEING
EVACUATED AND THAT VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE HAVE ALSO BEEN
EVACUATED, HE DID NOTHING TO
HELP THE VICE PRESIDENT. AND
HERE'S SOME MORE EVIDENCE THAT
WE HAVE SINCE LEARNED. AT SOME
POINT OVER THE FOLLOWING 30
MINUTES, PRESIDENT TRUMP SPOKE
TO MINORITY LEADER KEVIN
McCARTHY AND THEY HAVE REVEALED
EVIDENCE THAT HAS NOW BEEN
STIPULATED AS PART OF THE
EVIDENTIARY RECORD AND THAT
CONVERSATION, KEVIN McCARTHY IS
PLEADING WITH THE FORMER
PRESIDENT TO DO SOMETHING. HE
FIRST TRIES TO ASSIGN THE BLAME
TO ANOTHER GROUP AND LEADER
McCARTHY SAYS, NO, THESE ARE
YOUR SUPPORTERS MR. PRESIDENT.
AND WHAT DOES THE PRESIDENT SAY
IN RESPONSE? NOT SEND PEOPLE
RIGHT AWAY, I DIDN'T REALIZE YOU
WERE IN DANGER. HE SAYS, WELL,
KEVIN, AND I QUOTE, WELL, KEVIN,
I GUESS THESE PEOPLE ARE MORE
UPSET ABOUT THE ELECTION THAN
YOU ARE. AND QUOTE. I GUESS
THESE PEOPLE ARE MORE UPSET
ABOUT THE ELECTION THAN
YOU ARE. THE PRESIDENT JUST SAID
HE CONVEYED IN THAT TWEET AT
SIX: 01 WAS ESSENTIALLY SAYING
YOU GOT WHAT
YOU DESERVE. LET ME SAY THAT
AGAIN. NOT ONLY WAS THE
PRESIDENT FULLY AWARE OF THE
VICE PRESIDENT'S SITUATION AND
THE SITUATION THAT WE WERE ALL
IN WHEN HE WAS ASKED FOR HELP,
WHEN HE WAS ASKED TO DEFEND THE
CAPITAL, PRESIDENT
TRUMP REFUSED THAT REQUEST
FOR ASSISTANCE. HIS SINGULAR
FOCUS, STOPPING THE
CERTIFICATION OF THE ELECTION OF
HIS OPPONENT.
HE INCITED THE VIOLENCE TO STOP
THE CERTIFICATION. HE ATTACKED
THE VICE PRESIDENT AND FURTHER
INCITED THE INSURRECTION TO
PRESSURE THE VICE PRESIDENT TO
STOP THE CERTIFICATION. HE
CALLED SENATOR HUBBELL REAL TO
STOP IT AND HE REFUSED TO SEND
HELP TO CONGRESS. AND THIS
CONGRESS ON THE VICE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES WERE IN A
MORTAL DANGER BECAUSE HE WANTED
TO STOP THE CERTIFICATION. AND
HE DID THESE THINGS, ATTACKING
THE VICE PRESIDENT, CALLING
SENATOR
TARBORO, REFUSING THE REQUEST
WITH FULL KNOWLEDGE OF THE
VIOLENT ATTACK THAT WAS UNDERWAY
AT
THAT POINT. HE CHOSE RETAINING
HIS OWN POWER OVER THE SAFETY
OF AMERICANS. I CAN'T IMAGINE
ANY MORE DAMNING EVIDENCE OF HIS
STATE OF MIND. THE CALL ENDING
WITH A SCREAMING MATCH WITH
VIOLENT WRITERS BREAKING THROUGH
THE WINDOWS OF THE OFFICE.
SENATORS, THE PRESIDENT KNEW
THIS
WAS HAPPENING. THEY DIDN'T DO
ANYTHING TO HELP HIS VICE
PRESIDENT OR ANY
OF YOU OR ANY OF THE BRAVE
OFFICERS AND OTHER EMPLOYEES
SERVING THE AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT
THEY. HIS SOLE FOCUS WAS
STEALING THE ELECTION FOR
HIMSELF. AND HE APPARENTLY HAS
STILL NOT THOUGHT OF ANYONE
ELSE. ACCORDING TO MORE NEW
FACTS REVEALED LAST NIGHT, THE
VICE PRESIDENT'S TEAM DOES NOT
AGREE WITH THE PRESIDENT'S
COUNSEL OR HIS
ASSESSMENT EITHER. PENCE IS TEAM
DOES NOT AGREE WITH THE TRUMP
LAWYERS ASSESSMENT THAT TRUMP
WAS CONCERNED ABOUT HIS SAFETY.
TRUMP DID NOT CALL HIM THAT DAY.
OR FOR FIVE DAYS AFTER THAT. NO
ONE ELSE CALLED AS PENCE WAS
EVACUATED TO ONE ROOM OR ANOTHER
WITH A SCREAMING
MOB NEARBY.
&gt;&gt; OBJECTION, THIS IS NOT
IN EVIDENCE.
&gt;&gt; THE COUNCIL WILL SIT DOWN.
&gt;&gt; SENATORS, NUMBER
--
&gt;&gt;
THE COUNCIL WILL HAVE A CHANCE
TO SPEAK AND THE CHAIR WILL
CONSIDER THE ISSUE.
&gt;&gt; SENATORS, REMEMBER AS ONE OF
YOU SAID DURING THIS ATTACK,
THEY COULD HAVE KILLED US ALL.
STAFF, THE OPPOSITE IS
PROTECTING ALL OF US, EVERYONE.
AND PRESIDENT TRUMP NOT ONLY
INCITED IT, BUT CONTINUED
INCITING IT AS
IT OCCURRED WITH ATTACKS ON HIS
VICE PRESIDENT AND THEN
WILLFULLY REFUSED TO DEFEND US
FURTHERING HIS PROVOCATION AND
INCITEMENT BY THE MOB, SIDING
WITH THE MOB, SIDING WITH THE
VIOLENT INSURRECTION AS THEY
KILLED POLICE OFFICERS SWORN TO
PROTECT US BECAUSE THEY WERE
COMICAL, MORE UPSET ABOUT THE
ELECTION THAN
LEADER McCARTHY.
THERE CAN MEDO DOUBT THAT AT THE
MOMENT WE MOST NEEDED A
PRESIDENT TO PRESERVE, PROTECT
AND
DEFEND US
THAT IS WHY HE MUST BE
CONVICTED. I WOULD LIKE TO
CONCLUDE BY MAKING ONE FINAL
POINT THAT FILES FROM DIRECTLY
WHAT I JUST DISCUSSED. OUR CASE
AND THE ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT
BEFORE YOU
ABSOLUTELY INCLUDES PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S DERELICTION OF DUTY ON
JANUARY SIX.
THAT IS A FURTHER BASIS ON WHICH
TO CONVICT AND THERE CAN BE NO
DOUBT OF THAT. THE ONGOING
CONSTITUTIONAL MISCONDUCT IS
LIKE ANY CONTINUED OFFENSE AND
THE PROOF OF THAT IS
OVERWHELMING.
MOST DIRECTLY, HIS DERELICTION
OF DUTY OFFERS CONCLUSIVE,
IRREFUTABLE EVIDENCE THAT HE
ACTED WILLFULLY AS
WE CHARGE. HE WASN'T FURIOUS OR
SAD OR SHOCKED, LIKE VIRTUALLY
EVERYONE ELSE IN AMERICA. HE WAS
REPORTED BY THOSE AROUND HIM AS
DELIGHTED. RATHER THAN RUSH TO
OUR AID OR DEMAND HIS MOB
RETREAT HE WATCHED THE ATTACK ON
TV AND PRAISE THE MOB TO LEADER
McCARTHY AS MORE LOYAL TO HIM.
MORE UPSET ABOUT THE ELECTION
AND THAT WAS ALL THAT MATTERED.
HIS REACTION IS ALSO FURTHER
EVIDENCE OF HIS INTENT. HE ACTED
EXACTLY THE WAY A PERSON WOULD
ACT IF THEY HAD INDEED INCITED
THE MOB TO VIOLENCE TO STOP THE
STEAL.  MOREOVER AS I'VE SHOWN
PRESIDENT TRUMP DERELICTION AND
DUTY INCLUDES HIS DECISION TO
FURTHER INSIGHT THE MOB, EVEN IF
HE FAILED TO
PROTECT US.
ENCOURAGING AND PROVOKING THE
MOB
TO VIOLENCE.
HE CONTINUED TO TELL HIS
SUPPORTERS WAS STOLEN AND HE HAD
ACTUALLY WON IN
A LANDSLIDE. AND HE WASN'T
SURPRISED. HE SAW THIS AS A
PREDICTABLE RESULT OF HIS
REPEATED DEMANDS THAT HIS
FOLLOWERS STOP THE STEAL BY ANY
MEANS POSSIBLE.  THIS WAS ALL
CONNECTED. HIS DERELICTION OF
DUTY, HIS DESERTION OF DUTY WAS
PART AND PARCEL OF THE
CRIME CHARGED
HE WAS DELIGHTED BY THE ATTACK
AND HE SAW IT AS A NATURAL
RESULT OF HIS CALL TO STOP THE
STEAL AND THAT HE CONTINUED TO
INSIGHT AND  TARGET VIOLENCE AS
THE ATTACK UNFOLDED, WE
RESPECTFULLY SUBMIT YOU MUST
VOTE TO CONVICT AND DISQUALIFY.
THE EVENTS OF JANUARY SIX, SO
THEY CAN NEVER HAPPEN AGAIN IN
THIS COUNTRY.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LIKE TO CALL UP MS.
DEAN.
&gt;&gt; I'VE GOT A POINT OF ORDER MR.
PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, MOMENTS AGO,
HOUSE MANAGER RECORDED AGAIN --
&gt;&gt; THE CENTER
WILL WITHHOLD AND ADVISED BY THE
PROLETARIAN THAT DEBATE IS NOT
IN
ORDER.
&gt;&gt; DEBATE IS NOT IN ORDER
BECAUSE THIS IS NOT DEBATE. HE
SAID SOMETHING THAT IS NOT TRUE.
&gt;&gt; THE COURT HAS BEEN -- AND THE
CLERK WILL CALL THE ROLE.
&gt;&gt; MS. BALDWIN.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE OBJECTION? OBJECTION
IS HEARD.
&gt;&gt; MR. BENNETT.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR LEE RAISING CONCERNS
HERE BUT THERE IS A QUESTION
APPOINTED IN ORDER AND WHETHER
OR NOT SENATOR CAN RAISE
OBJECTIONS IN THIS MOMENT BASED
ON PROCEDURE. JAMES HOMAN IS MY
GUEST, I'M LIBBY CASEY AND YOU
ARE WATCHING LIVE COVERAGE FROM
THE WASHINGTON POST. WE ARE
GOING TO KEEP OUR EYES ON AS AN
AUTHORITY FIGURE OUT HOW THEY
DECIDE TO PROCEED. AT THE HEART
OF THIS IS MIKE LEE'S OBJECTIONS
TO A PHONE CALL THAT THEY ARE
TALKING ABOUT A PHONE CALL THAT
HE RECEIVED, JAMES.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THIS IS THE SAME ISSUE
THAT CAME UP THE OTHER NIGHT
AFTER THE FIRST ROUND OF DEBATE
AND IT IS RELEVANT BECAUSE IT
WAS SCOOPED A FEW HOURS AGO THAT
MIKE LEE ACTUALLY TURNED OVER
HIS PHONE RECORDS TO THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ON THE
HOUSE DEFENSE TEAM. IT IS NOT
CLEAR WHAT EXACTLY HE IS
COMPLAINING ABOUT BECAUSE HE
ALSO RECOUNTED THE SAME VERSION
OF EVENTS HIMSELF ON THE RECORD
TO THE DOES RETINUES. HE TOLD
REPORTERS THIS VERSION OF EVENTS
IMMEDIATELY AFTER JANUARY SIX.
IT SEEMS SENATOR LEE IS
FRUSTRATED AND ANNOYED THAT HIS
NAME IS BEING CITED AND INVOKED
AS PART OF THE CASE
PRESIDENT AND IT WAS INTERESTING
BECAUSE DURING THE PRESENTATION
WE JUST HEARD THERE WAS A QUOTE
FROM LINDSEY GRAHAM WHO WAS ALSO
DEAD SET AGAINST IMPEACHING THE
PRESIDENT BUT ONE SENATOR HERE'S
THAT AND DIDN'T MENTION LINDSEY
GRAHAM BY NAME BUT THEY DID
MENTION MICHAEL LEE BECAUSE THIS
IS IMPORTANT TO THIS IDEA THAT
TRUMP WAS TRYING TO REACH TOMMY
TO BARRVILLE, THE SENATOR FROM
ALABAMA. TRUMP CALLED MIKE LEE'S
CELL PHONE INSTEAD OF TO BRAZILS
CELL PHONE BECAUSE OF SOME
CONFUSION OR MIXUP SO IT SEEMS
LIKE ALLEGIS DOESN'T WANT TO BE
PART OF THE STORYLINE AT ALL BUT
AGAIN THE KEY THING IS THAT JUST
LAST NIGHT SENATOR TURBERVILLE
CONFIRMED ONCE AGAIN THAT WHAT
HE SAID ONCE AGAIN NOT JUST ON
JANUARY SIX AND IMMEDIATE THE
AFTER BUT ALSO EARLIER THIS WEEK
IS TRUE, THAT HE TOLD THE
PRESIDENT THAT MIKE PENCE HAD
JUST BEEN EVACUATED FROM THE
SENATE CHAMBER AND THAT HE
COULDN'T TALK BECAUSE HE HAD TO
GO BECAUSE HE WAS BEING
EVACUATED AND THAT PHONE CALL
CAME AS THE MOB WAS BREACHING
THE SENATE CHAMBER AND HE WAS
TELLING HIS PEOPLE NOT TO BACK
DOWN.
IT IS OBVIOUSLY PRETTY CLEAR
FROM THE PRESENTATION WE HEARD
THAT OF COURSE HE DID NO. THE
QUESTION IS WHEN EXACTLY HE
DIDN'T FIND OUT FROM TELEVISION
BUT DID HE FIND OUT FROM
TUBERVILLE OR THE SECRET SERVICE
OR SOMEONE ELSE BUT THERE'S
REALLY NO DISPUTING THAT TRUMP
OF COURSE NEW THAT THE CAPITAL
WAS UNDER SIEGE.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA COLEMAN JOINING US
FROM
CAPITOL HILL. ABOUT THE TIMING
OF THE PHONE CALL VERSUS TRUMP
STREET ATTACKING
MIKE PENCE BUT, YOU KNOW, AS
JAMES WAS TALKING ABOUT,
REGARDLESS OF THE PRECISE ORDER
WHICH OF COURSE IS STILL
IMPORTANT BUT REGARDLESS OF THE
PRECISE ORDER AS THE ATTACK WAS
STILL GOING ON, TRUMP DID NOT DO
ANYTHING TO TRY TO PROTECT PENCE
OR CALM THE MOB THAT WAS REALLY
WISHING LISTENING TO HIM IN
THAT MOMENT?  THAT'S RIGHT. IF
YOU WANT TO GO WITH THE STORY
YOU CAN ALSO LOOK AT THE
TIMELINE OF TRUMP'S TWEETS AS
WELL THAT HE DID POST A
DISPARAGING TWEET AGAINST MIKE
PENCE WHILE THE RIDE WAS
GOING ON AND THEN WE ALSO KNOW
THERE WAS THAT LONG LAPSE
BETWEEN THE MOMENT WHEN THE
WRITERS GOT INTO THE CAPITAL AND
UNTIL HE'S PUT OUT A VIDEO, SO,
TELLING PEOPLE TO GO HOME BUT
ALSO SAYING THAT HE BELIEVED THE
ELECTION WAS STOLEN, ALL-IN-ONE
VIDEO. SO EVEN IF YOU WANT TO,
YOU KNOW, GO WITH MIKE LEE WHO
SEEMS FAIRLY FRUSTRATED EVERY
TIME THIS STORY IS BROUGHT UP,
THERE ARE OTHER INDICATIONS THAT
HE
WAS ABSENT.
HE WASN'T WILLING TO HELP WHEN
HE SAW THERE WAS DANGER SO YOU
DO HAVE MULTIPLE EVIDENCE
SHOWING THAT THE PRESIDENT WAS
CHECKED OUT DURING THE TIMES
THAT THE RIGHT
WAS ONGOING.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO HANNAH JEWELL WHO
HAS BEEN FOLLOWING THE CLOSING
ARGUMENTS TODAY. HANNAH, WHAT IS
STANDING OUT TO YOU IN THE
PASSIONATE CLOSING
ARGUMENT?
&gt;&gt; HE LAID OUT THE ARGUMENT THAT
NOT ONLY DID TRUMP INSIGHT BI IT
BUT HE REVELED IN IT IN HIS
WORDS AND MY EARS ALSO PERKED UP
WHEN WE HEARD AGAINST AGAIN THE
PHRASE CANCEL CULTURE TALKING
ABOUT THE DEFENSES EARLIER THIS
WEEK CALLING THE IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL CONSTITUTIONAL CANCEL
CULTURE. HE TURNED THAT AROUND
ONTO THE REPUBLICANS SAYING THAT
THEY WERE THE ONES WHO TRIED AND
FAILED TO CANCEL LIZ CHENEY
BECAUSE SHE VOTED FOR
IMPEACHMENT AND THOSE WHO HAVE
BEEN LISTENING TO THE BROADCAST
ALL WEEK FIRST OF ALL, THANK
YOU, WELCOME. BUT YOU MAY HAVE
HEARD ME EXPLAIN THE ORIGINS OF
THIS TERM AND HOW STRANGE IT IS
THAT A PHRASE THAT
INTERNET SPEAK AND ACTIVISM THAT
POP CULTURE HAS ENDED UP ON THE
UNITED STATES SENATE IN AN
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL AND IT HAS
REALLY BEEN CO-OPTED TO PAIN
ACCOUNTABILITY AND ACTIVISM AND
FREE SPEECH ITSELF AS SOMETHING
SINISTER, SO, RASKIN APPEARED TO
BE USING THIS PHRASE AND YOU
KNOW, IN A SOMEWHAT CHEEKY AND
KNOWING MANNER TO SAY THINGS
THAT REPUBLICANS RECUSED US OF,
THEY ALSO DO THAT TO THEIR OWN
BUT I HAVE TO WORRY IF USING IT
IN THIS WAY FURTHER ENTRENCHES
THIS VERY TIRED AND AND FRANKLY
SOME WAYS DANGEROUS CULTURE AND
IT IS ALREADY SO STEEP TO THESE
TERMS.
&gt;&gt;
:, LET'S CIRCLE BACK TO
WITNESSES AND THE FRANKLY
ASTOUNDING DECISION BY DEMOCRATS
TO
MOVE FORWARD WITHOUT WITNESSES
EVEN THOUGH, FOR A MOMENT, THEY
WERE ABLE TO GET A HANDFUL OF
REPUBLICANS ON BOARD AND CALLING
FOR AT LEAST POTENTIALLY ONE
COME
AROUND A.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT. THEY HAD AN OPEN DOOR
TO POTENTIALLY CALLING WITNESSES
INTO THIS IMPEACHMENT TRIAL,
THAT IS WHAT SOLVES THE
PROCEEDINGS IN THE LAST FEW
HOURS, BUT THEY APPARENTLY
BROKERED A DEAL WHERE THEY
DECIDED TO JUST ADD
THE STATEMENT INTO THE EVIDENCE
INSTEAD OF ACTUALLY BRINGING HER
IN BUT YOU ARE RIGHT, THEY HAVE
THE VOTES, THEY DID VOTE AND
APPROVED THE
IDEA OF A SUBPOENA OF AWARENESS
INTO THIS TRIAL. SO THERE WAS
THE BOX HAD
BEEN OPEN TO POSSIBILITIES WERE
THERE. I THINK THIS COULD POINT
OUT I'M
SURE THIS POINTS TO SOMEONE OF
THE URGENCY THAT MEMBERS OF THE
SENATE DO WANT TO APPLY HERE,
THAT THEY WANT TO MOVE ON AND
THAT WAS THE PLAN. WE EVEN HAD
REPORTED THAT DEMOCRATS HAD AN
EARLY CALL WHERE THEY HAD NO
INDICATION THAT THEY HAD THAT
PAUSE TO CONSIDER THAT
SERIOUSLY. EVERYBODY THOUGHT IT
WOULD BE MAY BE WRAPPED UP BY
NOW BUT THAT IS NOT WHAT
HAPPENED SO THE DEMOCRATS
DECIDED TO BROKER THAT DEAL WITH
THE DEFENSE
LAWYERS AND IN SAYING THAT THEY
WOULD ONLY ADD TESTIMONY AS A
PART OF THE EVIDENCE THE
STATEMENT THAT THEY PUT OUT
THERE INSTEAD OF ACTUALLY
QUESTIONING THEM UNDER
OATH.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO YOU FOR THE
POSSIBILITY OF WITNESSES THAT
HAS NOW BEEN CLOSED. THE DOOR
WAS KICKED OPEN, THE DOOR HAS
BEEN SHUT. WHAT REASONING DO
DEMOCRATS HAVE FOR MOVING
FORWARD WITHOUT TRYING TO CALL A
WITNESS?
&gt;&gt; THEY DON'T WANT TO COME UP
HIS AGENDA. THEY REALLY JUST
WANT TO MOVE ON. THEY FEEL LIKE
THE FACTS HAVE BEEN ESTABLISHED
THAT IT IS CLEAR ENOUGH THAT
TRUMP DIDN'T SEND HELP AFTER HE
WAS ASKED TO. THAT THERE'S
REALLY NOT FACTS AND DISPUTE AND
THAT IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO
DRAG THIS OUT FOR WEEKS OR EVEN
MONTHS DURING THIS CRITICAL
PERIOD AND THE ECONOMY IS
REELING IN
A RECESSION. DEMOCRATS THINK
THAT THEY ARE FOCUSING ON WHAT
VOTERS ACTUALLY CARE ABOUT, BUT,
THERE IS GOING TO BE TENSION AND
FALLOUT FROM THIS. CHUCK
SCHUMER, THE DEMOCRATIC
MAJORITY LEADER IS FACING A
POTENTIAL PRIMARY CHALLENGE IN
2022. IT IS UNCLEAR FROM WHO BUT
SOMEONE ON THE LEFT IS LUCKY TO
PRIMARY HIM IN NEW YORK BUT IT
WAS TOO QUICK TO CUT A DEAL, TO
MOVE ON AND TO GET THIS BEHIND
EVERYONE SO THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT WILL BE RE-LITIGATED
CERTAINLY NOT IN A FORMAL WAY,
BUT THE DEMOCRATS WILL ARGUE
ABOUT WHETHER IT WAS THE RIGHT
THING TO DO, EVEN THOUGH IT MAY
NOT HAVE HAD ANY SORT OF IMPACT
ON THE OUTCOME EVEN AS A DRAG
THIS PROCESS
OUT LONGER.
&gt;&gt; SO, JAMES, THE CONVERSATION
RIGHT NOW IS DEMOCRATS VERSUS
DEMOCRATS. DID THEY CAVE OR DID
THEY NOT CAVE? IT HAS TOTALLY
TURNED AWAY FROM
THE REPUBLICANS
. THE PHRASING IS DID THEY CAVE,
DID THEY NOT CAVE? LET'S TALK
ABOUT WHAT WOULD'VE BEEN
PROVIDED BY PERSONAL TESTIMONY
BY CONGRESS WOMAN HERRERA BUTLER
THAT WOULD BE DIFFERENT OR NOT
DIFFERENT FROM HER WRITTEN
STATEMENT.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS PART OF THE ISSUE
THAT THIS IS CONVERSATION THAT
SHE HEARD ABOUT FROM McCARTHY.
SO IT IS SECONDHAND. SO, PART OF
IT IS THEY COULD'VE GOTTEN
HERRERA BUTLER TO TESTIFY BUT
SHE STILL WOULD'VE BEEN
RECOUNTING WHAT McCARTHY
SAID AND IT IS EXACTLY WHAT
HAPPENED. SO, YOU COULD FIGHT TO
HAVE HER APPEAR AND THEN
REPUBLICANS WOULD DEMAND SOME OF
THEIR OWN WITNESSES AND THAT
COULD END UP
ADDING TIME. IT STILL APPEARED
THAT IT WAS CLEAR THAT MIKE
PENCE WOULD BE SORT OF THE STAR
WITNESS FOR IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
WASN'T WILLING
TO TESTIFY THAT HE IS NOT
BREAKING RANKS WITH TRUMP EVEN
IF HE PRIVATELY IS STILL ANGRY
AT HIS FORMER RUNNING MATE AND
FEELS THAT TRUMP'S
LAWYERS MISREPRESENTED THE
NATURE OF THEIR RELATIONSHIP AND
THE NATURE OF THE PRESIDENTS
CONCERN FOR PENCE ON
JANUARY SIX.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT IT LOOKS LIKE WE
MAY BE SEEING PEOPLE TAKE THEIR
SEATS. A REMINDER THAT MIKE LEE,
THE SENATOR HAS OBJECTED TO THE
USE OF HIS NAME IN THIS
PROCEEDING AND SO THEY WENT INTO
A QUORUM TO SORT THIS OUT. LET'S
GO BACK NOW TO THE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT I ASK UNITED
UNANIMOUS DISPENSE THAT IT BE
ORDERED WITH.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM UTAH.
&gt;&gt; I WITHDRAW MY APPEAL.
&gt;&gt; WITHDRAWN. THE CHAIR WOULD
ADVISE EVERYBODY, THE
EVIDENTIARY RECORD IS CLOSED, AS
FOR US
THOSE THINGS NOT ADMITTED TO
EVIDENCE AS THOSE REFERENCED IN
TRIAL. NEW EVIDENCE IS NOT
PERMITTED IN CLOSING ARGUMENT.
REFERENCES TO SUCH NEW EVIDENCE
WILL
BE STRICKEN.
THE HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE THE
FLOOR IF THEY WISH
TO RESUME. HOUSE MANAGERS?
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; HOUSE MANAGER.
&gt;&gt; ESTEEM SENATORS, GOOD
AFTERNOON. WE ARE GRATEFUL FOR
YOUR KIND ATTENTION THIS WEEK AS
WE ENGAGED IN A PROCESS
FORMULATED AND PUT TO PAPER BY
THE FOUNDERS IN MY HOME CITY OF
PHILADELPHIA, WHICH IS GETTING
ITS FAIR SHARE OF ATTENTION THIS
WEEK. IN 1787, 234 YEARS
IMPORTANCE OF THE PRESIDENTS
DERELICTION OF DUTY. I WILL
FOCUS ON THREE SPECIFIC ASPECTS
OF THIS CASE FIRST, THE DEFENSE
SUGGEST THAT THIS WAS JUST ONE
SPEECH AND ONE SPEECH CANNOT
INCITE INSURRECTION. AND THE
DEFENSE SUGGESTED BECAUSE THE
ATTACK WAS PREPLANNED BY SOME
INSURRECTIONIST DONALD TRUMP IS
SOMEHOW
NOT CULPABLE. NOR ARE THEY WHAT
WE ALLEGES, SO, LET'S BE CLEAR.
WE ARE NOT SUGGESTING THAT
DONALD TRUMP'S JANUARY SIX
SPEECH BY ITSELF INSIDE OF THE
ATTACK. WE HAVE SHOWN THAT HIS
COURSE OF CONDUCT LEADING UP TO
AND INCLUDING THAT SPEECH IN
SIDE OF
THE ATTACK.
HIS BIG LIE, THE ONLY WAY HE
COULD LOSE WAS IF THE WAS
RIGGED. TWO, THAT TO ENSURE THE
ELECTION WOULD NOT BE STOLEN, TO
PREVENT THE FRAUD THEY HAD TO
STOP THE STEAL AND THREE, THEY
HAD TO FIGHT TO STOP  THE STEAL
OR THEY WOULD NOT HAVE A COUNTRY
ANYMORE. THIS CONDUCT TOOK TIME
AND IT CULMINATED AND
DONALD TRUMP SENDING A SAVE THE
DATE ON DECEMBER 19th, 18 DAYS
BEFORE THE ATTACK IN TELLING HIS
BASE EXACTLY WHEN, WHERE AND WHO
TO FIGHT. AND WHILE HE WAS DOING
THIS, HE SPENT $50 MILLION FROM
HIS LEGAL DEFENSE FUND TO
SIMULTANEOUSLY BROADCAST HIS
MESSAGE TO STOP THE STEAL  OVER
ALL
MAJOR NETWORKS. DONALD TRUMP
INVITED THEM, HE INCITED THEM,
THEN HE DIRECTED THEM. HERE ARE
A FEW CLIPS THAT WILL HELP BRING
THAT STORY TO LIGHT.
&gt;&gt; CAN YOU GIVE A DIRECT ANSWER
YOU WILL ACCEPT THE ELECTION?
&gt;&gt; I HAVE TO SEE. KNOW I'M NOT
GOING TO JUST SAY YES, THIS
ELECTION WILL BE THE MOST RIGGED
ELECTION IN HISTORY. THIS IS
GOING TO BE THE GREATEST
ELECTION DISASTER IN HISTORY.
THE ONLY WAY THEY CAN TAKE THIS
ELECTION AWAY FROM US IS IF THIS
IS A
RIGGED ELECTION. IS A RIGGED
ELECTION. THAT IS THE ONLY WAY
WE ARE GOING TO LOSE. WE WILL
HAVE
A VERY PEACEFUL -- THERE WON'T
BE A TRANSFER FRANKLY, THERE
WILL BE A CONTINUATION. THAT IS
THE ONLY WAY WE ARE GOING TO
LOSE IS IF
THIS MISCHIEF AND IT WILL HAVE
TO BE ON A BIG SCALE, SO, BE
CAREFUL. BUT THIS WILL BE ONE OF
THE GREATEST MOST FRAUDULENT
ELECTIONS EVER. WE ARE NOT GOING
TO LET THIS ELECTION BE TAKEN
AWAY FROM US. THAT IS THE ONLY
WAY THEY ARE GOING TO WIN IT.
THIS IS A FRAUD ON THE AMERICAN
PUBLIC. THIS IS AN EMBARRASSMENT
TO OUR COUNTRY. WE WERE GETTING
READY TO WIN THIS ELECTION.
FRANKLY, WE DID WIN THIS
ELECTION. WE WERE WINNING AND
ALL THE KEY LOCATIONS BY A LOT
ACTUALLY AND THEN OUR NUMBERS
STARTED MIRACULOUSLY GETTING
WHITTLED AWAY AND THIS IS A CASE
WHERE THEY ARE TRYING TO STEAL
AN ELECTION. THEY ARE TRYING TO
RIGGED ELECTION AND WE CAN'T LET
THAT HAPPEN. YOU CAN'T LET
ANOTHER PERSON STEAL THAT
ELECTION FROM YOU. ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY, PEOPLE ARE TOGETHER IN
HOLDING UP SIGNS,  STOP THE
STEAL. IF WE DON'T ROOT OUT THE
FRAUD, THE TREMENDOUS AND
HORRIBLE FRAUD  THAT HAS TAKEN
PLACE IN OUR 2020 ELECTION, WE
DON'T HAVE A COUNTRY ANYMORE. WE
CANNOT ALLOW A COMPLETELY
FRAUDULENT ELECTION
TO STAND. WE ARE GOING TO FIGHT
LIKE HELL. I CAN TELL YOU. IF
YOU DON'T FIGHT  FOR YOUR
COUNTRY FOR EVERYTHING YOU HAVE,
YOU WILL NOT HAVE A COUNTRY
LEFT. WE
WILL NOT BEND, WE WILL NOT
BREAK, WE WILL NOT YIELD, WE
WILL NEVER GIVE IN, WE WILL
NEVER GIVE UP, WE WILL NEVER
BACK DOWN, WE WILL NEVER, EVER
SURRENDER. ALL OF US HERE TODAY
DO NOT WANT TO SEE OUR ELECTION
VICTORY STOLEN. WE WILL NEVER
GIVE UP, WE WILL NEVER CONCEDE.
IT DOESN'T HAPPEN. YOU DON'T
CONCEDE WHEN THERE IS THEFT
INVOLVED. AND TO USE A FAVORITE
TERM THAT ALL OF YOU PEOPLE
REALLY CAME UP WITH,
WE WILL STOP THE STEAL BECAUSE
YOU WILL NEVER TAKE BACK OUR
COUNTRY WITH WEAKNESS.  YOU HAVE
TO SHOW STRENGTH THEN YOU HAVE
TO BE STRONG. MAKE NO MISTAKE,
THIS ELECTION WAS STOLEN FROM
YOU, FROM ME, FROM THE COUNTRY.
AND WE FIGHT. WE FIGHT LIKE HELL
AND IF YOU DON'T FIGHT LIKE
HELL, YOU ARE NOT GOING TO HAVE
A COUNTRY ANYMORE.
&gt;&gt; OUR POINT IS THIS. THIS WAS
NOT ONE SPEECH. THIS WAS A
DELIBERATE, PURPOSEFUL EFFORT BY
DONALD TRUMP OVER MANY MONTHS,
THAT RESULTED IN THE WELL
ORGANIZED MOBS ATTACK ON JANUARY
THE SIXTH. THAT BRINGS ME TO MY
SECOND POINT.
THE VIOLENCE. DEFENSE COUNSEL
ARGUES THAT THERE IS NO WAY THAT
DONALD TRUMP COULD HAVE KNOWN
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN. YET, WE ARE
NOT SUBJECTING, NOR IS IT
NECESSARY FOR US TO PROVE THAT
DONALD TRUMP KNEW EVERY DETAIL
OF WHAT WOULD UNFOLD ON JANUARY
SIXTH OR EVEN HOW HORRIBLE AND
DEADLY THE ATTACK WOULD BECOME.
BUT, HE DID KNOW. AS HE LOOKED
OUT ON THAT FEE OF THOUSANDS IN
FRONT OF THEM, SOME WEARING BODY
ARMOR AND HELMETS, OTHERS
CARRYING WEAPONS, THAT THE
RESULT WOULD
BE VIOLENCE. THE EVIDENCE
OVERWHELMINGLY
DEMONSTRATES THIS.
A FEW POINTS ON THIS. DONALD
TRUMP KNEW THE PEOPLE HE WAS IN
THE SIDING, LEADING UP TO
JANUARY SIX. HE SAW THE VIOLENCE
THEY WERE CAPABLE OF. HE HAD A
PATTERN AND PRACTICE OF PRAISING
AND SUPPORTING VIOLENCE, NEVER
CONDEMNING IT. IT IS NOT A
COINCIDENCE THAT THOSE SAME
PEOPLE, THE PROUD BOYS, THE
ORGANIZER OF THE TRUMP CARAVAN,
THE SUPPORTERS AND SPEAKERS AT
THE SECOND MILLION MARCH ALL
SHOWED UP ON JANUARY SIX. AND
DONALD TRUMP'S BEHAVIOR
WAS DIFFERENT. THIS WAS MONTHS
OF CULTIVATING A BASE OF PEOPLE
WHO WERE VIOLENT, PRAISING THAT
VIOLENCE AND THEN
LEADING THEM, LEADING THAT
VIOLENCE, THAT RAGE STRAIGHT TO
A JOINT SESSION OF CONGRESS
WHERE HE KNEW HIS VICE PRESIDENT
WAS RESIDING. AND DONALD TRUMP
HAD WARNINGS ABOUT THE CROWD ON
JANUARY SIX. THERE WERE DETAILED
POSTS ONLINE ABOUT
ATTACK PLANS.
THERE WERE CREDIBLE REPORTS THAT
MANY WOULD BE ARMED AND READY TO
ATTACK THE CAPITAL. DESPITE
THESE CREDIBLE WARNINGS OF
SERIOUS DANGEROUS THREATS TO OUR
CAPITAL, WHEN THE CROWD WAS
STANDING IN FRONT OF THE
PRESIDENT, READY TO TAKE ORDERS
AND ATTACK, HE SAID WE ARE GOING
TO
THE CAPITAL AND WE FIGHT. WE
FIGHT LIKE HELL AND IF YOU DON'T
FIGHT LIKE HELL, YOU ARE NOT
GOING TO HAVE A COUNTRY ANYMORE.
IS A
SHORT CLIP.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE GOING TO DESTROY THE
GOP. [ APPLAUSE
]
&gt;&gt; DESTROY THE GOP, DESTROY THE
GOP.
&gt;&gt; BECAUSE YOU WILL NEVER TAKE
BACK OUR COUNTRY WITH WEAKNESS.
YOU HAVE TO SHOW STRENGTH THEN
YOU HAVE TO
BE STRONG.
&gt;&gt; SENATORS, THE VIOLENCE ON
JANUARY SIX WAS DEMONSTRABLY
FORESEEABLE. TRUMP EVEN SAID SO
HIMSELF AT 6:01 P.M. THE DAY OF
THE ATTACK, THE LAST THING HE
SAID BEFORE HE WENT TO SLEEP,
QUOTE, THESE ARE THE THINGS
THAT HAPPEN.
THAT BRINGS ME TO MY FINAL
POINT, THE INSURRECTIONIST,
DEFENSE COUNSEL HAS SUGGESTED
THESE PEOPLE COME HERE ON THEIR
OWN. THE DEFENSE BRIEF STATES
THAT THE INSURRECTION DID SO FOR
THEIR OWN ACCORD AND FOR THEIR
OWN REASONS AND ARE BRIE BEING
CRIMINALLY PROSECUTED. IT IS
TRUE THAT ON SOME INSURRECTION
IS ARE BEING PROSECUTED BUT IT
IS NOT
THAT THEY DID
ACCORD AND FOR THEIR
THE OF THE ENTRANCE
MAKES CLEAR THE EXACT OPPOSITE
THAT
FOR DONALD TRUMP AT HIS
INVITATION, AT HIS DIRECTION,
AT HIS COMMAND. THEY SAID
BEFORE THE ATTACK, DURING THE
ATTACK, THEY SAID
THE ATTACK, LEADING UP TO
JANUARY SIX
IN POST AFTER
SUPPORTERS
CONFIRMED THIS WAS
FOR DONALD TRUMP.
IT
WAS AT HIS DIRECTION.
ONE SUPPORTER
HIM AND I QUOTE, IF CONGRESS
ILLEGALLY CERTIFIES BIDEN, TRUMP
WOULD HAVE ABSOLUTELY
BUT TO DEMAND
CAPITAL. AND KILL/BEAT
FOR IT. THEY EVEN SAY PUBLICLY,
AND PROUDLY THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
WOULD HELP
NATIONAL GUARD, SO, ALL THEY
HAVE TO DO IS OVERWHELM 2000
CAPITAL POLICE OFFICERS. DURING
HIS SPEECH ON JANUARY SIX, TRUMP
SUPPORTERS CHANTED HIS WORDS
BACK TO HIM, THEY EVEN LIVE
TREATED HIS COMMANDS, DURING THE
ATTACK, THE INSURRECTIONIST THAT
THE CAPITAL CHANTED DONALD
TRUMP'S WORDS FROM HIS TWEETS,
RALLIES AND FROM THE SPEECH ON
THE SIXTH. THEY HELD SIGNS THAT
SAID ENCHANTED FIGHT FOR TRUMP,
STOP THE STEAL.  THEY AMPLIFY
HIS DEMANDS, ANOTHER WRITER
WHILE LIVE STREAMING THE
INSURRECTION FROM THE CAPITAL
SAID, QUOTE, HE WILL BE HAPPY,
WE ARE FIGHTING FOR TRUMP. IS
MORE THE INSURRECTIONIST WERE
NOT HIDING, THEY BELIEVE THEY
WERE FOLLOWING THE ORDERS FROM
OUR COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF. THEY
FELT SECURE ENOUGH IN THE
LEGITIMACY OF THEIR ACTIONS TO
TAKE SELFIES, TO POST PHOTOS AND
VIDEOS ON SOCIAL MEDIA. AFTER
THE ATTACK, WRITER AFTER WRITER
CONFIRMED THIS TOO. JENNA RYAN,
WHO WAS LATER ACCUSED FOR HER
ROLE IN THE INSURRECTION SAID,
QUOTE, I THOUGHT I WAS FOLLOWING
MY PRESIDENT. I THOUGHT WE WERE
FOLLOWING WHAT WE WERE CALLED TO
DO. AND PRESIDENT TRUMP
REQUESTED THAT WE BE INDICES ON
THE 6th . WHEN IT BECAME CLEAR
THAT DONALD TRUMP WOULD NOT
PROTECT  THEM, SOME OF HIS
SUPPORTERS SAID THEY FELT DUPED,
THEY FELT TRICKED. LISTEN TO
SOME OF THIS EVIDENCE.
&gt;&gt; EVEN IF THEY THINK FOR A
SECOND THAT THEY ARE GOING TO
GET AWAY WITH IT TODAY, THEY GOT
ANOTHER THING COMING. BECAUSE
TODAY IS JUST THE DAY AND TODAY
IS JUST THE BEGINNING. THEY
HAVEN'T SEEN ANY RESISTANCE
UNTIL THEY HAVE SEEN A PATRIOT
FIGHT FOR THEIR COUNTRY.
&gt;&gt; THE PARTIES WILL WITHHOLD.
&gt;&gt; IT IS IN THE RECORD.
&gt;&gt; THE EVIDENTIARY RECORD IS
CLOSED. AS 47 DESCRIBES THE
SCOPE OF THOSE THINGS ADMITTED
INTO EVIDENCE AS THOSE
REFERENCED IN TRIAL. NEW
EVIDENCE IS NOT PERMITTED IN
CLOSING ARGUMENT. REVENANT
EVIDENCE TO SUCH WILL BE
STRICKEN. WHO YIELDS TIME?
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, THE STATEMENT
WAS IN EVIDENCE, THE SLIDE WAS
NOT SO WE WILL WITHDRAW THIS
DIED -- BE SLIDE. THE STATEMENT
WAS IN EVIDENCE. THEY TOLD YOU
THEMSELVES THEY WERE FOLLOWING
THE PRESIDENT'S ORDERS AND YOU
WILL SEE SOMETHING CLEARLY.
DONALD TRUMP KNEW WHO THESE
PEOPLE WERE. AS THE SLIDESHOWS,
THE PEOPLE WHO HIS VIOLENCE HE
PRAYS WERE ALL THERE ON JANUARY
SIXTH. THE PROUD BOYS WHO DONALD
TRUMP TOLD TO STAND BACK AND
STAND BY IN SEPTEMBER OF 2020,
KEITH LEE, ORGANIZER OF THE
TRUMP CARAVAN THAT TRIED TO
DRIVE THE BIDEN CAMPAIGN BUS OFF
THE ROAD, KATRINA PEARSON, THE
SPEAKER AT THE SECOND MILLION
MAGA MARCH. THEY WERE ALL THERE.
THE VIDEO YOU ARE ABOUT TO SEE
IS IN THE RECORD. CORRECTION.
THE RECORD DID INCLUDE
APPROPRIATELY THE LAST VIDEO, SO
WE WILL KEEP THAT IN THE RECORD
AND I WILL KEEP IT IN MY
CLOSING REMARKS.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS LIVE COVERAGE FROM
THE WASHINGTON POST. THERE'S
THIS QUESTION
OVER EVIDENCE WHETHER ALL OF THE
VIDEOS AND SLIDES THAT THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE SHOWING
RIGHT NOW WERE ALREADY PART OF
THE EVIDENTIARY RECORD SO JAMES
HOLMAN, YOU KNOW, THERE'S SOME
BACK-AND-FORTH THAT WE ARE
WITNESSING HERE AND THE QUESTION
IS WHETHER OR NOT CONGRESSMAN
DEAN CAN BE PERMITTED TO SHOW
SOME OF THESE, YOU KNOW, VIDEOS
AND INFORMATION. I'M JUST
LAUGHING FROM IT BECAUSE ONE OF
THE ATTORNEYS FOR PRESIDENT
TRUMP, MICHAEL VAN DER VEENS
JUST SLAMMED DOWN WHAT HE HAD IN
HIS HANDS.
&gt;&gt; WHAT PROMPTED IT WAS KATRINA
PEARSON, A FREQUENT KIND OF
FOX NEWS TALKING HEAD ON TRUMP'S
BEHALF SPOKE OF AND RALLY ON
JANUARY SIX AND WAS TALKING
ABOUT FIGHTING. I BELIEVE WHAT
THEY ARE SAYING IS THAT WAS
INTRODUCED INTO EVIDENCE THAT IT
WAS PART OF THE EVIDENTIARY
RECORD BUT THAT WAS NOT ACTUALLY
PLAYED DURING THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT ARGUMENT SO IT IS
THE FIRST TIME THAT PUBLIC EVENT
IS BEING PLAYED DURING THE
IMPEACHMENT TRIALS SO THE
OBJECTION WAS THAT YOU CAN'T ALL
OF A SUDDEN SHOW US THIS VIDEO
WE'VE NEVER SEEN BEFORE IN THE
CLOSING ARGUMENT WHICH YOU
WOULDN'T WANT TO SEE CLOSING OR
NEW INFORMATION AND THAT WAS THE
SAME THAT HE WAS OBJECTING
BEFORE APPARENTLY ANY RESPONSE
TO
OUR COLLEAGUE RELATED TO WHAT
SOURCES THAT HE HAS IN MIKE
PENCE WERE TELLING HIM YESTERDAY
IN RESPONSE TO THE TRUMP
DEFENSE TEAM CLAIMING HOW GOOD
THE RELATIONSHIP WAS BETWEEN
TRUMP AND PENCE AND MIKE LEE
OBJECTING SAYING YOU CAN'T PUT
THIS UP BECAUSE THIS WASN'T PART
OF THE EVIDENTIARY RECORD BUT WE
ACTUALLY WITHDREW THAT I THINK
TO SOME DEGREE TO REDUCE
SCRUTINY OF IT AND REDUCE THE
AMOUNT OF ATTENTION BEING PAID
TO THE UNDERLYING.
&gt;&gt; WHAT MAY BE DIFFERENT FROM
THE MIKE LEE OBJECTION AND THIS
IS WHAT WAS SUBMITTED INTO THE
RECORD OF EVIDENCE BY THE
VARIOUS TEAMS WHETHER OR NOT IT
HAS BEEN PLAYED OR AIRED IT HAD
STILL BEEN SUBMITTED AHEAD OF
TIME AND I WOULD LIKE TO
REMIND VIEWERS THAT SEE WHERE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER DEAN GOES
FROM HERE.
&gt;&gt; SENATORS WILL TAKE THEIR
SEATS. THE SENATE WILL BE
IN ORDER.
REPRESENTATIVE YOU
MAY CONTINUE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU. I HAVE TO SAY THAT
OF ALL THE TRIALS I'VE EVER BEEN
A PART OF, THIS IS CERTAINLY ONE
OF THEM. AS THE SLIDESHOW, THE
PEOPLE HE CULTIVATED HIS
VIOLENCE HE PRAISED WERE ALL
THERE ON JANUARY SIX. THE PROUD
BOYS WHO DONALD TRUMP TOLD TO
STAND BACK AND STAND BY IN
SEPTEMBER OF 2020, KEITH LEE,
THE ORGANIZER OF THE TRUMP
CARAVAN THAT TRIED TO DRIVE THE
BIDEN CAMPAIGN BUS OFF THE ROAD,
KATRINA PEARSON, THE SPEAKER AT
THE SECOND MILLION MAGA MARCH,
THEY WERE ALL THERE. THERE IS
ONE FINAL CLIP ALSO SUBMITTED IN
THE RECORD.
SENATORS, SOME OF THE
INSURRECTIONIST ARE FACING
CRIMINAL CHARGES. DONALD TRUMP
WAS ACTING AS OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF. HE WAS
OUR PRESIDENT. HE USED HIS
OFFICE AND THE AUTHORITY IT
COMMANDS TO INCITE AN ATTACK.
AND WHEN CONGRESS AND THE
CONSTITUTION WERE UNDER ATTACK,
HE ABANDONED HIS DUTIES,
VIOLATED HIS OATH, FAILING TO
PRESERVE, PROTECT AND DEFEND.
THAT IS WHY WE ARE HERE BECAUSE
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES INSTRUCTED THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE TO ATTACK THE LEGISLATIVE
BRANCH. HE KNEW WHAT HIS
SUPPORTERS WERE CAPABLE OF, HE
INFLAMED THEM, SEND THEM DOWN
PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE, NOT ON ANY
OLD DAY BUT ON THE DAY WE WERE
CERTIFYING THE ELECTION RESULTS
AS THEY WERE BANGING ON OUR
DOORS, HE FAILED TO DEFEND US
BECAUSE THIS IS WHAT HE WANTED.
HE WANTED TO REMAIN IN POWER.
FOR THAT CRIME AGAINST THE
REPUBLIC, HE MUST BE HELD
ACCOUNTABLE. SENATORS, THE
INSURRECTIONIST ARE
STILL LISTENING. BEFORE I END, I
MUST ADMIT UNTIL WE WERE
PREPARING FOR THIS TRIAL, I
DIDN'T KNOW THE EXTENT OF MANY
OF
THESE FACTS. I WITNESSED THE
HORROR BUT I DIDN'T KNOW. I
DIDN'T KNOW HOW DELIBERATE THE
PRESIDENT'S PLANNING WAS. HOW HE
HAD INVESTED IN IT. HOW MANY
TIMES HE INCITED HIS SUPPORTERS
WITH THESE LIES. HOW CAREFULLY
AND CONSISTENTLY HE INCITED THEM
TO VIOLENCE ON JANUARY SIX.
WHILE MANY OF US MAY HAVE TUNED
OUT HIS RALLIES, I ALSO DID NOT
KNOW THE EXTENT THAT HIS
FOLLOWERS WERE LISTENING OR
HANGING ON HIS EVERY WORD. AND
HONESTLY, I DID NOT KNOW HOW
CLOSE THE MOB ACTUALLY CAME TO
THEIR VIOLENT ENDS. THAT THEY
WERE JUST STEPS AWAY FROM ALL OF
US, THAT THE DEATH TOLL COULD
HAVE BEEN
MUCH HIGHER BUT FOR THE BRAVERY
OF MEN AND WOMEN WHO PROTECTED
US. BUT NOW WE KNOW. WE KNOW THE
BRAVERY OF PEOPLE LIKE OFFICER
GOODMAN AND ALL THE MEN AND
WOMEN IN THE
CAPITAL POLICE. OF THE
CUSTODIANS WHO, WITH PRIDE AND A
SENSE OF DUTY IN THEIR WORK,
CLEANED UP SHATTERED GLASS,
SPLINTERED WOOD AND
BLOODSTAINED FLOORS. WE KNOW THE
SACRIFICE OF LIFE AND LIMB. WE
KNOW WHAT DONALD TRUMP DID. WE
KNOW WHAT HE FAILED
TO DO THOUGH IT IS DIFFICULT TO
BEAR WITNESS AND FACE THE
REALITY OF WHAT HAPPENED IN
THESE HALLS, WHAT HAPPENS IF WE
DON'T CONFRONT THESE FACTS? WHAT
HAPPENS IF THERE IS
NO ACCOUNTABILITY? FOR THOSE WHO
SAY WE NEED TO GET PAST THIS, WE
NEED TO COME TOGETHER, WE NEED
TO UNIFY, IF WE DON'T SET THIS
RIGHT AND CALL IT WHAT IT WAS,
THE HIGHEST OF CONSTITUTIONAL
CRIMES BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, THE PAST WILL NOT
BE PASSED. THE PAST WILL BECOME
OUR FUTURE. FOR MY GRANDCHILDREN
AND FOR
THEIR CHILDREN. SENATORS, WE ARE
IN A DIALOGUE WITH HISTORY. A
CONVERSATION WITH OUR PAST, WITH
A HOPE FOR OUR FUTURE. 234 YEARS
FROM NOW, IT MAY BE THAT NO ONE
PERSON HERE AMONG US IS
REMEMBERED. AND YET, WHAT WE DO
HERE, WHAT IS BEING ASKED OF
EACH OF US HERE IN THIS MOMENT
WILL BE REMEMBERED. HISTORY HAS
FOUND US. I ASK THAT YOU NOT
LOOK THE
OTHER WAY.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD NOW LIKE TO BRING UP
THE NEXT.
&gt;&gt;
MR. PRESIDENT, DISTINGUISHED
SENATORS. THERE IS AN OLD QUOTE
FROM HENRY CLAY, SON OF
KENTUCKY, THAT THE USE OF A
SMALL AND TRIVIAL CHARACTER ARE
THE ONES THAT STRIKE DEEPEST IN
THE GRATEFUL AND
APPRECIATING HEART. I WANT TO
SAY ON BEHALF OF ALL THE HOUSE
MANAGERS THAT WE ARE VERY
GRATEFUL FOR THE COURTESIES THAT
YOU HAVE EXTENDED TO US AND THE
PRESIDENT'S COUNSEL DURING THE
COURSE OF THIS TRIAL. YOU'VE
HEARD MY COLLEAGUE, MANAGER
DEAN, GO THROUGH THE
OVERWHELMING EVIDENCE THAT MAKES
CLEAR THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP MUST
BE CONVICTED AND DISQUALIFIED
FOR HIS HIGH CRIME. I'M NOT
GOING TO REPEAT THAT EVIDENCE.
IT SPEAKS
FOR ITSELF. EARLIER IN THIS
TRIAL, YOU MIGHT RECALL A FEW
DAYS AGO, THAT I MENTIONED MY
EXPECTATION THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S LAWYERS MIGHT DO
EVERYTHING THEY COULD TO AVOID
DISCUSSING THE FACTS OF
THIS CASE. AND I CAN UNDERSTAND
WHY. I MEAN, THE EVIDENCE THAT
ALL OF US PRESENTED, THAT
MANAGER DEAN JUST SUMMARIZED IS
PRETTY DEVASTATING AND SO RATHER
THAN ADDRESS IT, THE PRESIDENT
HAS OFFERED UP DISTRACTIONS.
EXCUSES. ANYTHING BUT ACTUALLY
TRYING TO DEFEND AGAINST
THE FACTS. THEY SAID THINGS LIKE
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS NOW A PRIVATE
CITIZEN SO THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM CAN DEAL WITH HIM OR WE
HAVEN'T SET A CLEAR STANDARD FOR
INCITEMENT, THEY TALKED A LOT
ABOUT DUE PROCESS AND THAT ALL
POLITICIANS SAY WORDS LIKE
FIGHT. I WOULD LIKE TO TAKE A
MINUTE TO EXPLAIN WHY EACH OF
THOSE DISTRACTIONS ARE
PRECISELY THAT, DISTRACTIONS.
AND WHY THEY DO NOT PREVENT, IN
ANY WAY,
THE SENATE FROM CONVICTING
PRESIDENT TRUMP.
NUMBER ONE, EVERY PRESIDENT IS
ONE DAY A PRIVATE
CITIZEN AGAIN. SO, I MEAN, THE
ARGUMENT THAT BECAUSE PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAS LEFT OFFICE ON THE HE
SHOULD BE IMPEACHED FOR CONDUCT
COMMITTED WHILE HE WAS IN OFFICE
DOESN'T MAKE SENSE. I MEAN, WHY
WOULD THE CONSTITUTION INCLUDE
THE IMPEACHMENT POWER
AT ALL IF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM SERVES AS A SUITABLE
ALTERNATIVE ONCE A PRESIDENT
LEAVES OFFICE? IT WOULDN'T.
IMPEACHMENT IS A REMEDY SEPARATE
AND APART FROM THE CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEM AND FOR GOOD
REASON. THE PRESIDENCY, I MEAN,
IT COMES WITH SPECIAL POWERS.
EXTRAORDINARY POWERS, NOT THE
STOWED ON ORDINARY CITIZENS. AND
IF THOSE POWERS ARE ABUSED, THEY
CAN CAUSE GREAT DAMAGE TO OUR
COUNTRY AND THEY HAVE TO BE
DEALT WITH IN A SEPARATE FORUM.
THIS FORUM. AND IT WOULD
BE UNWISE TO SUGGEST THAT GOING
FORWARD, THE ONLY APPROPRIATE
RESPONSE
TO CONSTITUTIONAL OFFENSES
COMMITTED BY A PRESIDENT ARE
CRIMINAL CHARGES WHEN THE
PRESIDENT RETURNS TO PRIVATE
LIFE. THAT IS NOT THE KIND OF
POLITICAL SYSTEM ANY OF US WANT.
AND IT IS NOT THE KIND OF
CONSTITUTIONAL SYSTEM THE
FRAMERS INTENDED. SECOND, IT IS
TRUE, WE HAVE INCITED
CRIMINAL STATUTES ESTABLISHING
ELEMENTS OF INCITEMENT BECAUSE,
AGAIN, THIS ISN'T A CRIMINAL
TRIAL. IS NOT A
CRIMINAL CASE. PRESIDENT TRUMP
IS CHARGED WITH A CONSTITUTIONAL
OFFENSE. AND YOU ARE TO ASK WITH
DETERMINING WHETHER OR NOT HE
COMMITTED THAT HIGH CRIME AS
UNDERSTOOD BY OUR FRAMERS
MUSCLE, THE RELEVANT QUESTION,
WHICH PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LAWYERS
WOULD HAVE YOU IGNORE IS WHAT
OUR FRAMERS HAD CONSIDERED A
PRESIDENT INCITING A
VIOLENT MOB TO ATTACK OUR
GOVERNMENT WHILE SEEKING TO STOP
THE CERTIFICATION OF OUR
ELECTIONS. WITH THE OF CONSIDER
THAT AN IMPEACHABLE OFFENSE? WHO
AMONG US, WHO AMONG US REALLY
THINKS THE ANSWER TO THAT
QUESTION
IS NO? THIRD, DUE PROCESS. SO,
JUST TO BE
ABSOLUTELY CLEAR, THE HOUSE WITH
THE SOLE POWER OF IMPEACHMENT
DETERMINES WHAT THE PROCESS
LOOKS LIKE IN THE HOUSE AND THE
SENATE DOES THE SAME FOR
THE TRIAL. DURING THIS TRIAL,
THE PRESIDENT HAS COUNSEL.
THEY'VE ARGUED VERY VIGOROUSLY
ON
HIS BEHALF. WE HAD A FULL
PRESENTATION OF EVIDENCE,
ADVERSARIAL PRESENTATIONS,
MOTIONS, THE PRESIDENT WAS
INVITED TO TESTIFY, HE DECLINED.
PRESIDENT WAS INVITED TO PROVIDE
EXCULPATORY EVIDENCE.
HE DECLINED. YOU CAN'T CLAIM
THERE IS NO DUE PROCESS WHEN YOU
WON'T PARTICIPATE IN
THE PROCESS. AND WE KNOW THIS
CASE ISN'T ONE THAT REQUIRES A
COMPLICATED LEGAL ANALYSIS. YOU
LIVED IT. THE MANAGERS AND I, WE
LIVED IT. OUR COUNTRY LIVED IT.
THE PRESIDENT, IN PUBLIC VIEW,
RIGHT OUT IN THE OPEN, INCITED A
VIOLENT MOB. A MOB THAT
TEMPORARILY, AT LEAST, STOPPED
US FROM CERTIFYING ELECTION. IF
THERE WERE EVER AN EXIGENT
CIRCUMSTANCE, THIS
IS IT.
NUMBER FOUR. WE ALL KNOW THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S DEFENSE, AS WE
PREDICTED, SPENT A LOT OF TIME,
A WHOLE LOT OF TIME, COMPARING
HIS CONDUCT TO OTHER POLITICIANS
USING WORDS LIKE FIGHT. OF
COURSE YOU SAW
THE ARTISTS A VIDEO. AS I SAID
ON THURSDAY, WE TRUST YOU TO
KNOW THE DIFFERENCE. BECAUSE
WHAT YOU WILL NOT FIND IN THOSE
VIDEO MONTAGES THAT THEY SHOWED
YOU IS ANY OF THOSE SPEECHES,
THOSE
REMARKS CULMINATING IN A VIOLENT
INSURRECTION ON OUR NATIONS
CAPITAL. THAT IS
THE DIFFERENCE. THE PRESIDENT
SPENT MONTHS INFLAMING HIS
SUPPORTERS TO BELIEVE THAT THE
ELECTION HAD BEEN STOLEN FROM
HIM, FROM THEM. WHICH WAS NOT
TRUE. HE SUMMONED
ASSEMBLED THE MOB AND WHEN THE
VIOLENCE ERUPTED, HE DID NOTHING
TO STOP IT. INSTEAD, INCITING
IT FURTHER. SENATORS, ALL OF
THESE ARGUMENTS OFFERED BY THE
PRESIDENT HAVE ONE FUNDAMENTAL
THING IN
COMMON. ONE. THEY HAVE NOTHING
TO DO WITH WHETHER OR NOT
FACTUALLY, WHETHER OR NOT THE
PRESIDENT INCITED THIS ATTACK.
THEY'VE
GIVEN YOU A LOT OF DISTRACTIONS
SO THEY DON'T HAVE TO DEFEND
WHAT HAPPENED HERE ON THAT
TERRIBLE DAY. AND THEY
DO THAT BECAUSE THEY BELIEVE
THOSE DISTRACTIONS ARE GOING
TO WORK. THAT YOU WILL IGNORE
THE PRESIDENT'S CONDUCT INSTEAD
OF CONFRONTING IT. I THINK THEY
ARE WRONG. SOME OF YOU KNOW THIS
ALREADY. I'M THE YOUNGEST MEMBER
OF OUR MANAGER TEAM BUYS QUITE A
FEW YEARS. SO PERHAPS SOME OF IT
NAVE, BUT, I JUST DON'T
BELIEVE THAT. I REALLY DON'T. I
DON'T BELIEVE THERE EFFORT IS
GOING TO WORK. AND HERE IS WHY.
BECAUSE I KNOW WHAT THIS BODY IS
CAPABLE OF. I MAY NOT HAVE
WITNESSED IT, BUT I READ ABOUT
IT. IN THE HISTORY BOOKS. I'VE
SEEN THE
C-SPAN FOOTAGE
, ARCHIVES, SOMETIMES OF WATCH
THEM FOR HOURS AND YES I'VE
ACTUALLY DONE THAT AND THE
HISTORY OF OUR COUNTRY IN THOSE
BOOKS AND IN THOSE TAPES, THE
HISTORY OF THIS COUNTRY HAS BEEN
DEFINED RIGHT HERE ON THIS
FLOOR. THE 13th AMENDMENT, THE
AMENDMENT ABOLISHING SLAVERY WAS
PASSED IN THIS VERY ROOM. IN
THIS ROOM. NOT
FIGURATIVELY, LITERALLY. WEAR
YOU OFF IT AND WHERE I STAND. IN
1964, THIS BODY, WITH THE HELP
OF SENATORS LIKE JOHN SHERMAN
COOPER AND SO MANY OTHERS, THIS
BODY SECURED PASSAGE OF THE
CIVIL
RIGHTS ACT. WE MADE THE DECISION
TO ENTER WORLD WAR II FROM THIS
CHAMBER. WE HAVE CERTAINLY HAD
OUR STRUGGLES, BUT WE'VE ALWAYS
RISEN TO THE OCCASION WHEN IT
MATTERED THE MOST. NOT BY
IGNORING INJUSTICE OR COWERING
TO BULLIES AND THREATS, BUT BY
DOING THE RIGHT THING, BY TRYING
TO DO THE RIGHT THING AND THAT
IS WHY SO MANY NATIONS AROUND
THE WORLD ASPIRE TO BE LIKE
AMERICA. THEY STAND UP
TO DICTATORS AND TYRANTS BECAUSE
AMERICA IS A GUIDING LIGHT FOR
THEM. A
NORTH STAR. THEY DO SO, THEY
LOOK TO US BECAUSE WE HAVE BEEN
A GUIDING LIGHT, A NORTH STAR IN
THESE MOMENTS. BECAUSE THE
PEOPLE WHO SAT IN YOUR CHAIRS
WHEN CONFRONTED WITH CHOICES
THAT DEFINE US ROSE TO THE
OCCASION. I WANT TO OFFER ONE
MORE EXAMPLE OF A DECISION IN
THIS ROOM BY THIS BODY THAT
RESONATED
WITH ME.
THE FIRST DAY I STOOD UP IN THIS
TRIAL, I MENTIONED THAT I WAS
THE SON OF IMMIGRANTS LIKE MANY
OF YOU AND MANY SENATORS
GRACIOUSLY APPROACHED ME AFTER
MY PRESENTATION AND ASKED ME
WHERE MY PARENTS WERE FROM AND I
TOLD THOSE WHO ASKED, MY FOLKS
WERE FROM EAST AFRICA. IN 1986,
1986, THIS BODY CONSIDERED A
BILL TO OVERRIDE PRESIDENT
REAGAN'S VETO OF LATEST FLASHING
LEGISLATION IMPOSING SANCTIONS
ON
SOUTH AFRICA.
TWO SENATORS WHO SIT IN THIS
ROOM, ONE DEMOCRAT AND ONE
REPUBLICAN VOTED TO OVERRIDE
THAT VETO. THAT VOTE WAS NOT
ABOUT GAINING POLITICAL FAVOR.
AND IN FACT, IT WAS MADE DESPITE
POTENTIALLY LOSING
POLITICAL FAVOR AND I HAVE TO
IMAGINE THAT THAT VOTE WAS CAST
LIKE THE DECISIONS BEFORE IT
BECAUSE THERE ARE MOMENTS THAT
TRANSCEND PARTY POLITICS AND
THAT REQUIRE US TO PUT COUNTRY
ABOVE OUR PARTY BECAUSE THE
CONSEQUENCES OF NOT DOING SO ARE
JUST
TOO GREAT. SENATORS, THIS IS ONE
OF
THOSE MOMENTS.
MANY FOLKS WHO ARE WATCHING
TODAY'S PROCEEDINGS MAY NOT KNOW
THIS, BUT, HOUSE MEMBERS LIKE ME
AND MANAGER ASKING, WE ARE NOT
ALLOWED ON THE SENATE FLOOR
WITHOUT
EXPRESS PERMISSION. KNOW IT IS,
CERTAINLY THE SENATORS ARE AWARE
OF THAT. THIS FLOOR
IS SACRED. IT IS ONE OF THE
REASONS WHY I, LIKE SO MANY OF
YOU, OFFENDED TO SEE IT
DESECRATED BY
THAT MOB. TO SEE THOSE
INSURRECTIONIST DIMINISHING AND
DEVALUING AND DISRESPECTING
THESE HALLOWED HALLS THAT MY
WHOLE LIFE I HAVE HELD IN
SUCH ALL. BECAUSE OF THOSE RULES
THAT I
JUST MENTIONED, THIS WILL BE THE
ONLY TIME I HAVE THE PRIVILEGE
TO STAND BEFORE YOU LIKE THIS.
WHEN THE TRIAL IS OVER, I WILL
GO BACK TO BEING NOT AN
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER BUT JUST
BEING A HOUSE MEMBER. THE TRIAL
WILL END AND WE WILL RESUME OUR
LIVES AND OUR WORK. BUT, FOR
SOME, THERE WILL BE NO END.
NO END. NO END TO THE PAIN ON
WHAT HAPPENED ON
JANUARY SIX. THE OFFICERS WHO
STRUGGLED TO RECOVER FROM THE
INJURIES THEY SUSTAINED TO
PROTECT US, THE STRUGGLE TO
RECOVER TODAY. THE FAMILIES WHO
CONTINUE TO MOURN THOSE WHO THEY
LOST ON THAT TERRIBLE,
TRAGIC DAY. I WAS STRUCK
YESTERDAY BY DEFENSE COUNSEL'S,
CONTINUED REFERENCES TO HATE.
ONE OF MY
FAVORITE QUOTES OF DR. MARTIN
LUTHER KING JR., IT IS ONE THAT
HAS SUSTAINED ME  DURING TIMES
OF ADVERSITY. I DECIDED TO STICK
WITH LOVE. THAT HATE IS TOO
GREAT A BURDEN
TO BEAR. THIS TRIAL IS NOT BORN
FROM HATRED. FAR
FROM IT. IT IS BORN FROM LOVE OF
COUNTRY. OUR COUNTRY. OUR DESIRE
TO
MAINTAIN IT. OUR DESIRE TO SEE
AMERICA AT ITS BEST AND IN THOSE
MOMENTS THAT I SPOKE OF, CIVIL
RIGHTS ACT,
WE REMEMBER THOSE MOMENTS
BECAUSE THEY HELPED DEFINE AND
ENSHRINE AMERICA AT
ITS BEST. I FIRMLY BELIEVE THAT
OUR CERTIFICATION OF THE
ELECTORAL COLLEGE VOTES IN THE
EARLY HOURS OF JANUARY SEVENTH,
OUR REFUSAL TO LET OUR REPUBLIC
BE THREATENED AND TAKEN DOWN BY
A VIOLENT MOB WILL GO DOWN IN
HISTORY AS ONE OF THOSE MOMENTS
TOO. AND I BELIEVE THAT THIS
BODY CAN RISE TO THE OCCASION
ONCE
AGAIN TODAY. BY CONVICTING
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND DEFENDING
OUR REPUBLIC. AND MISTAKES, --
THE STAKES COULD NOT BE HIGHER.
BECAUSE THE COLD,
HARD TRUTH IS THAT WHAT HAPPENED
ON JANUARY 6th CAN HAPPEN
AGAIN.  I FEAR LIKE MANY OF YOU
DO THAT THE VIOLENCE WE SAW ON
THAT DAY MAYBE JUST THE
BEGINNING. WE'VE SHOWN YOU THE
ONGOING RISKS, THE
EXTREMIST GROUPS WHO GROW MORE
EMBOLDENED
EVERY DAY. SENATORS, THIS CANNOT
BE THE BEGINNING. IT CAN'T BE
THE NEW NORMAL. IT HAS TO BE THE
END. AND THAT DECISION IS IN
YOUR HANDS.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, SENATORS, MY
DAUGHTER HANNAH SAID SOMETHING
TO ME LAST NIGHT THAT STOPPED ME
COLD AND BROUGHT ME UP SHORT.
HER KIDS
HAVE BEEN VERY MOVED BY ALL THE
VICTIMS OF THE VIOLENCE, THE
OFFICERS AND THEIR FAMILIES, BUT
HANNAH TOLD ME LAST NIGHT SHE
FELT REALLY SORRY FOR THE KID OF
A MAN WHO SAID GOODBYE TO HIS
CHILDREN BEFORE HE LEFT HOME TO
COME AND JOIN
TRUMP'S ACTIONS. THEIR FATHER
HAD TOLD THEM THAT THEIR DAD
MIGHT NOT BE COMING HOME AGAIN
AND THEY MIGHT NOT EVER SEE HIM
AGAIN. IN OTHER WORDS,
HE WAS EXPECTING VIOLENCE, HE
MIGHT DIE AS INSURRECTIONIST
DID. AND THAT
SHOOK ME. HANNAH SAID HOW CAN
THE PRESIDENT PUT CHILDREN AND
FAMILIES IN THAT SITUATION AND
THEN JUST RUN AWAY FROM THE
WHOLE THING? THAT SHOOK ME. AND
I WAS
BECAUSE WHEN I FIRST SAW THE
LINE ABOUT YOUR FATHER GOING TO
WASHINGTON, YOU MIGHT NOT SEE
HIM AGAIN, I JUST THOUGHT ABOUT
IT, WELL, LIKE A PROSECUTOR,
LIKE A MANAGER. I THOUGHT WHAT
DAMNING EVIDENCE THAT IS THAT
PEOPLE ARE EXPECTING
VIOLENCE THAT A PROTEST CALLED
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES AND SAYING GOODBYES TO
THEIR KIDS, BUT HANNAH, MY DEAR
HANNAH THOUGHT ABOUT IT LIKE A
HUMAN BEING. SHE THOUGHT OF IT,
IF YOU WILL FORGIVE ME, LIKE A
PATRIOT. SOMEONE WHO JUST LOST
HER BROTHER AND DOESN'T WANT TO
SEE ANY OTHER KIDS IN AMERICA GO
THROUGH THAT KIND OF AGONY AND
GRIEF. SENATORS, WHEN I SAY ALL
THREE OF MY KIDS ARE BETTER THAN
ME, YOU KNOW THAT I HAVE NOT
ENGAGED IN IDLE FLATTERY. MAYBE
SOME OF YOU FEEL THE SAME WAY
ABOUT YOUR KIDS. THEY ARE
LITERALLY BETTER PEOPLE THAN ME.
THEY'VE GOT A LOT OF THEIR MOM
AND THEY ARE BETTER THAN ME. AND
HANNAH SAW THROUGH THE LEGALITY
OF THE SITUATION. SHE SAW
THROUGH THE POLITICS OF THE
SITUATION, ALL THE WAY TO THE
HUMANITY OF THE SITUATION. THE
MORALITY OF
THE SITUATION. THAT WAS ONE OF
THE MOST PATRIOTIC THINGS I EVER
HEARD ANYBODY SAY. THE CHILDREN
OF THE INSURRECTIONIST, EVEN THE
VIOLENT AND DANGEROUS ONES, THEY
ARE OUR CHILDREN TOO. THEY ARE
AMERICANS AND WE MUST TAKE CARE
OF THEM. AND THEIR FUTURE. WE
MUST RECOGNIZE AND EXERCISE
THESE CRIMES AGAINST OUR NATION
AND THEN WE MUST TAKE CARE OF
OUR PEOPLE AND OUR CHILDREN,
THEIR HEARTS AND THEIR MINDS AS
TOMMY RASKIN USED TO SAY, IT IS
HARD TO BE HUMAN. MANY OF THE
CAPITAL AND METROPOLITAN POLICE
OFFICERS AND GUARDS MEN AND
WOMEN WHO WERE BEING
UP THEM BY THE MOB ALSO HAVE
KIDS. YOU REMEMBER OFFICER FOR
KNOWN WHO HAD A HEART ATTACK
AFTER BEING TASED AND ROUGHED UP
FOUR HOURS BY THE MOB AND THEN
BIG FOR HIS LIFE TELLING THE
INSURRECTIONIST THAT HE HAD
FOUR DAUGHTERS. AND THAT JUST
ABOUT BROKE MY HEART ALL OVER
AGAIN. WE TALKED ABOUT THIS FOR
A LONG TIME LAST NIGHT. MY KIDS
FELT TERRIBLE THAT OTHER KIDS
FATHERS AND MOTHERS WERE PULLED
INTO THIS NIGHTMARE BY A
PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES. SENATORS, WE
PROVED HE BETRAYED HIS COUNTRY.
WE PROVED HE BETRAYED HIS
CONSTITUTION. WE PROVED HE
BETRAYED HIS OATH
OF OFFICE. THE STARTLING THING
TO RECOGNIZE NOW IS THAT HE IS
EVEN BETRAYING
THE MOB. HE TOLD THEM HE WOULD
MARCH WITH THEM AND HE DIDN'T.
THEY BELIEVE THE PRESIDENT WAS
RIGHT THERE WITH HIM SOMEWHERE
IN THE CROWD FIGHTING THE
FANTASY CONSPIRACY TO STEAL THE
ELECTION AND STEAL THEIR COUNTRY
AWAY FROM THEM. THEY THOUGHT
THEY WERE ONE BIG TEAM WORKING
TOGETHER. HE TOLD THEM THEIR
GREAT JOURNEY TOGETHER WAS JUST
BEGINNING AND NOW THERE ARE
HUNDREDS OF CRIMINAL
PROSECUTIONS GETTING GOING ALL
OVER THE COUNTRY. PEOPLE GETTING
SET TO SAY GOODBYE TO MEMBERS OF
THEIR FAMILY AND THE PRESIDENT
WHO
CONTACTED THEM, SOLICITED THEM,
LURED THEM, INVITED THEM,
INCITED THEM, THAT PRESIDENT HAS
SUDDENLY GONE QUIET AND DARK.
NOWHERE TO
BE FOUND. HE CANNOT BE TROUBLED
TO COME HERE TO TELL US
WHAT HAPPENED. AND TELL US WHY
THIS WAS THE PATRIOTIC AND THE
CONSTITUTIONAL THING TO DO.
SENATORS, THIS TRIAL IN THE
FINAL ANALYSIS IS NOT ABOUT
DONALD TRUMP. THE COUNTRY IN THE
WORLD KNOW WHO DONALD TRUMP IS.
THIS TRIAL IS ABOUT WHO WE ARE.
WHO
WE ARE. MY FRIEND DARA WILLIAMS
SAYS THAT SOMETIMES THE TRUTH IS
LIKE A SECOND CHANCE. WE'VE GOT
A CHANCE HERE WITH
THE TRUTH. WE STILL BELIEVE IN
THE SEPARATION OF POWERS.
PRESIDENT TRUMP TRIED TO
SIDELINE OR RUN OVER EVERY EVER
OTHER BRANCH
OF GOVERNMENT.
THIS CASE IS ABOUT WHETHER OUR
COUNTRY DEMANDS A
PEACEFUL, NONVIOLENT TRANSFER OF
POWER TO GUARANTEE THE
SOVEREIGNTY OF THE PEOPLE. ARE
WE GOING TO DEFEND THE PEOPLE OR
DEFEND US? NOT JUST HONOR THEM
WITH METALS AS YOU RIGHTFULLY
DID YESTERDAY BUT ACTUALLY BACK
THEM UP AGAINST SAVAGE, BARBARIC
INSURRECTIONARY VIOLENCE? WILL
WE RESTORE THE HONOR OF OUR
CAPITAL AND THE PEOPLE WHO
WORK HERE? WILL WE BE A
DEMOCRATIC NATION THAT THE WORLD
LOOKS TO FOR UNDERSTANDING
DEMOCRATIC VALUES AND PRACTICES
AND CONSTITUTIONAL GOVERNMENT
AND THE RIGHTS OF WOMEN AND MEN?
WELL, THE
SENATE CONDONE THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES INCITING AN
ATTACK ON OUR CHAMBERS, OUR
OFFICES, OUR STAFF AND THE
OFFICERS WHO PROTECT US? WHEN
YOU SEE THE FOOTAGE OF OFFICER
HODGES STUCK IN THE DOORWAY,
LITERALLY BEING TORTURED BY
THE MOB,
THE GOVERNMENT DID THAT TOO,
THAT WOULD BE TORTURE. AND WHEN
YOU SEE THAT FOOTAGE AND HE'S
SHOUTING IN AGONY FOR HIS DEAR
LIFE, IT IS ALMOST UNWATCHABLE.
WHEN THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES ESCAPES A VIOLENT
MOB THAT HAS ENTERED THIS
CAPITAL BUILDING, SEEKING TO
HANG HIM AND CALLING OUT,
TRADER, TRADER, TRADER. AND WHEN
THEY
SHUT DOWN THE COUNTING OF
ELECTORAL COLLEGE VOTES, IS THIS
THE FUTURE YOU IMAGINED FOR OUR
KIDS? IS IT TOTALLY APPROPRIATE
AS WE'VE BEEN
TOLD WHERE OR HIS REPRESENTATIVE
CHENEY SAID IS THAT THE GREATEST
BETRAYAL OF THE PRESIDENTIAL
OATH OF OFFICE IN THE HISTORY OF
OUR COUNTRY? AND IF WE CAN'T
HANDLE THIS TOGETHER AS A
PEOPLE, ALL OF US, FORGETTING
THE LINES OF PARTY AND IDEOLOGY
ANGIOGRAPHY AND ALL OF THOSE
THINGS, IF WE CAN'T HANDLE THIS,
HOW ARE WE EVER GOING TO CONQUER
THE OTHER CRISES OF OUR DAY? IS
THIS AMERICA? IS THIS WHAT WE
WANT TO BEQUEATH TO OUR CHILDREN
AND GRANDCHILDREN? I WAS NEVER A
GREAT SUNDAY SCHOOL STUDENT.
ACTUALLY, I WAS PRETTY TRUANT
MOST OF THE TIME. BUT
ONE MISE LINE ALWAYS STUCK WITH
ME FROM THE BOOK OF EXODUS AS
BOTH BEAUTIFUL AND HAUNTING,
EVEN AS A KID AFTER I ASKED WHAT
THE WORDS MEANT. THOU SHALT NOT
FOLLOW A MULTITUDE TO
DO EVIL. THE OFFICER WHO
GOT CALLED
THE N WORD 15 TIMES AND SPENT
HOURS WITH HIS COLLEAGUES
BATTLING INSURRECTIONIST WHO HAD
METAL POLES AND BASEBALL BATS
AND HOCKEY STICKS, BEAR SPRAY
AND CONFEDERATE BATTLE FLAGS
POSED THE RIGHT QUESTION TO THE
SENATE AND TO ALL OF US. IS
THIS AMERICA? DEAR SENATORS,
THAT IS GOING TO BE UP TO YOU
NOW AND WHAT OTHER SUBCOMMITTEES
YOU ARE ON, WHATEVER YOU CAME TO
WASHINGTON TO DO TO WORK ON FROM
DEFENSE TO AGRICULTURE TO ENERGY
TO AEROSPACE TO HEALTHCARE, THIS
IS ALMOST CERTAINLY HOW YOU WILL
BE REMEMBERED BY HISTORY. THAT
MIGHT NOT
BE FAIR. IT REALLY MIGHT NOT BE
FAIR BUT NONE OF US CAN ESCAPE
THE DEMANDS OF HISTORY AND
DESTINY
RIGHT NOW. OUR REPUTATIONS AND
OUR LEGACY WILL BE INEXTRICABLY
INTERTWINED WITH WHAT WE DO
HERE. AND WITH HOW YOU EXERCISE
YOUR OATH TO DO IMPARTIAL
JUSTICE.
IMPARTIAL JUSTICE. I KNOW AND I
TRUST YOU WILL DO IMPARTIAL
JUSTICE, DRIVEN BY YOUR
METICULOUS ATTENTION TO THE
OVERWHELMING FACTS OF THE CASE
AND YOUR LOVE FOR OUR
CONSTITUTION, WHICH I KNOW
DWELLS IN
YOUR HEART.
THE NAMESAKE OF MY SON, THE
TIMES HAVE FOUND US, IS
THIS AMERICA, WHAT KIND OF
AMERICA WILL WE BE? IT IS NOW
LITERALLY IN YOUR HANDS.
GODSPEED TO THE SENATE OF THE
UNITED STATES. WE RESERVE ANY
REMAINING
TIME.
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE HAS RESERVED
28 MINUTES.
&gt;&gt;
PROCEED.
&gt;&gt; BEFORE I START MY
PREPARED CLOSING, I REALLY WANT
TO CLEAN UP A FEW THINGS FROM
THE MESS THAT WAS THE CLOSING OF
THE HOUSE MANAGERS. I DON'T WANT
TO RUIN MY CLOSING BECAUSE I
THINK THE ENDING IS PRETTY GOOD.
WHAT
THEY
DIDN'T -- THEY STARTED OFF BY
MISSTATING THE LAW AND THEY
STARTED OFF BY MISSTATING THE
INTENT OF OUR STIPULATION. WHAT
WE DID TODAY WAS STIPULATE TO
AN ARTICLE THAT WAS PUBLISHED IN
A MAGAZINE. APPARENTLY THEY'VE
HAD FOR WEEKS ACCORDING TO THE
DOCUMENTS THEY PRODUCE TODAY BUT
FOR SOME REASON THIS MORNING
POPPED UP WITH IT. THE
STIPULATION WAS THAT THEY CAN
PUT
THAT IN.
DID NOT STIPULATE TO ITS
CONTENTS FOR TRUTHFULNESS AND
THEY TRIED TO PORTRAY THAT IN
THEIR CLOSING AS THE
STIPULATION. THE STIPULATION WAS
READ INTO THE RECORD. THE
PROPONENTS OF THAT CONVERSATION,
THE REAL ONES HAVE DENIED ITS
CONTENT, ITS VERACITY. WITH
RESPECT TO -- I'M NOT GOING TO
TALK ABOUT THE
TORTURED ANALYSIS
WHAT I DO WANT TO TALK ABOUT IS
THE DOCTORING OF EVIDENCE. FIRST
OF ALL, THEY SENT US THEIR
EVIDENCE ON TUESDAY THE NINTH AT
232 P.M. BY EMAIL. I WAS IN
THIS ROOM TRYING THE CASE
ALREADY WHEN THEY SENT THEIR
EVIDENCE,
DUE PROCESS. THEY USED EVIDENCE
THAT WAS FLAT WRONG TWO OR THREE
NIGHTS AGO WITH SENATOR LEE AND
HAD TO WITHDRAW IT. THEY TRIED
TO USE IT AGAIN TODAY. THEY
TRIED TO USE EVIDENCE THAT THEY
HAD NEVER PRESENTED IN THE CASE
IN THEIR CLOSING ARGUMENT, THAT
IS A VERY DESPERATE ATTEMPT BY
THE PROSECUTING TEAM LINE OF
THEM. BY PROSECUTING TEAM THAT
NEW THAT THEIR CASE
HAS COLLAPSED. THEIR CLOSING DID
NOT MENTION ONE PIECE OF LAW.
THEY DIDN'T TALK ABOUT THE
CONSTITUTION ONCE. THEY DIDN'T
TALK ABOUT THE FIRST AMENDMENT
AND ITS APPLICATION. THEY DIDN'T
TALK ABOUT DUE PROCESS AND HOW
IT APPLIES TO THIS PROCEEDING
FOR
MY CLIENT.
BASIC RULE OF ANY COURT IS NOT
WHEN YOU CLOSE A CASE OUT, YOU
CLOSE ON THE FACTS THAT WERE
ADMITTED IN THE TRIAL. IT IS A
BASIC FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE OF
DUE PROCESS AND FAIRNESS AND
THAT WAS VIOLENTLY BREACHED
TODAY ON
MULTIPLE OCCASIONS AND YOU HAVE
TO ASK YOURSELF, WHY? WHY DID
THEY RESORT TO THOSE TACTICS AT
THIS MOMENT
IN TIME?
SENATORS,
GOOD AFTERNOON. WHAT TOOK PLACE
HERE AT THE U.S. CAPITOL ON THE
26th THE SIXTH WAS A GREAT
TRAGEDY OVER THE COURSE OF THIS
TRIAL YOU HAVE HEARD ON EITHER
SIDE OF THIS DEBATE ARGUE THAT
THE INFILTRATION OF THE ARGUER
WAS ANYTHING LESS THAN A HEINOUS
ACT ON THE HOME OF AMERICAN
DEMOCRACY. ALL
OF US STARTING WITH MY CLIENT
ARE DEEPLY DESERVED BY THE
GRAPHIC VIDEOS OF THE CAPITAL
ATTACK THAT HAD BEEN SHOWN IN
RECENT DAYS. THE ENTIRE TEAM
CONDEMNED AND HAVE REPEATEDLY
CONDEMNED THE VIOLENCE AND
LAWBREAKING THAT OCCURRED ON
JANUARY SIXTH ON THE STRONGEST
POSSIBLE TERMS WE THAT INDICATED
THAT EVERYBODY BE
FOUND, PUNISHED, TO THE MAXIMUM
EXTENT OF THE LAW. YET, THE
QUESTION
BEFORE US IS NOT WHETHER THERE
WAS A VIOLENT INSURRECTION OF
THE CAPITAL. ON THAT POINT,
EVERYONE AGREES. BASED ON THE
EXPLICIT TEXT OF THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT ARTICLE, THIS TRIAL
IS ABOUT WHETHER MR. TRUMP WILL
FULLY ENGAGED IN INCITEMENT OF
VIOLENCE AND EVEN INSURRECTION
AGAINST THE
UNITED STATES. AND THAT
QUESTION, THEY HAVE POSED IN
THEIR ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT HAS
TO BE SET UP AGAINST THE LAW OF
THIS COUNTRY. NO MATTER HOW MUCH
TRULY HORRIFYING FOOTAGE WE SEE
OF THE CONDUCT OF THE RIOTERS
AND HOW MUCH EMOTION HAS BEEN
INJECTED INTO THIS TRIAL, THAT
DOES NOT CHANGE THE FACT THAT
MR. TRUMP IS INNOCENT OF THE
CHARGES AGAINST HIM. DESPITE ALL
OF THE
VIDEO PLAYED AT NO POINT IN
THEIR PRESENTATION DID YOU HEAR
THE HOUSE MANAGERS PLAY A SINGLE
EXAMPLE OF MR. TRUMP URGING
ANYONE TO ENGAGE IN VIOLENCE OF
ANY KIND. AT NO POINT DID YOU
HEAR ANYTHING THAT COULD EVER
POSSIBLY BE CONSTRUED AS MR.
TRUMP ENCOURAGING OR SANCTIONING
AN INSURRECTION. SENATORS, YOU
DID NOT HEAR THOSE TAPES BECAUSE
THEY DO NOT EXIST. BECAUSE THE
ACT OF INCITEMENT NEVER
HAPPENED. HE ENGAGED IN THE
LANGUAGE OF INCITEMENT
WHATSOEVER ON JANUARY 6th OR ANY
OTHER DAY FOLLOWING THE
ELECTION.  NO
UNBIASED PERSON HONESTLY
REVIEWING THE TRANSCRIPT OF MR.
TRUMP'S SPEECH ON THE ELLIPSE
COULD
POSSIBLY BELIEVE THAT HE WAS
SUGGESTING VIOLENCE. HE
EXPLICITLY TOLD THE CROWD THAT
HE EXPECTED THE PROTESTS OUTSIDE
THE CAPITAL TO BE PEACEFUL AND
PATRIOTIC. THEY CLAIM THAT IS
NOT ENOUGH. HIS ENTIRE PREMISE
WAS THAT THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
JOINT SESSION SHOULD CONTINUE.
HE SPENT NEARLY THE ENTIRE
SPEECH TALKING ABOUT HOW HE
BELIEVES THE SENATORS AND
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS SHOULD VOTE
ON
THE MATTER. THE SUPREME COURT
RULED IN BRANDENBURG THAT THERE
IS A VERY CLEAR STANDARD
FOR INCITEMENT. IN SHORT, YOU
HAVE TO LOOK AT THE WORDS
THEMSELVES. THE WORDS HAVE TO
EITHER EXPLICITLY OR IMPLICITLY
CALL FOR THE WORDS. CALL FOR
LAWLESSNESS OR VIOLENCE. WHETHER
THE SPEECH, YOU HAVE TO
DETERMINE WHETHER THE SPEECH WAS
INTENDED TO PROVOKE THE
LAWLESSNESS AND WHETHER THE
VIOLENCE WAS THE LIKELY RESULT
OF THE WORD ITSELF. THEY FAIL ON
ALL
THREE PRONGS. THE CLAIM THAT HE
GAVE A SPEECH ENCOURAGING HIS
SUPPORTERS TO GO ATTACK THE
CAPITAL HAS BEEN REPEATED SO
OFTEN, UNCRITICALLY, WITHOUT ANY
EXAMINATION OF THE EXAMINATION
FAX THAT THE AMERICANS LISTENING
AT HOME WERE PROBABLY SURPRISED
TO LEARN IT IS
NOT TRUE. FURTHERMORE, SOME OF
THE PEOPLE IN THIS ROOM FOLLOWED
HIS STATEMENTS IN THE WEEKS
LEADING UP TO JANUARY SIX VERY
CLOSELY. WE KNOW THAT HE WAS NOT
TRYING TO FOMENT AN INSURRECTION
DURING THE TIME BECAUSE NO ONE
FROM THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE TO
THE MAYOR OF WASHINGTON
DC BEHAVED IN A FASHION
CONSISTENT WITH THE BELIEF THAT
VIOLENCE WAS BEING
ADVOCATED FOR.
MR. TRUMP DID NOT SPEND THE
WEEKS PRIOR TO JANUARY SIXTH
INCITING VIOLENCE. HE SPENT
THOSE WEEKS PURSUING HIS
ELECTION CHALLENGE TO THE COURT
SYSTEM AND OTHER LEGAL
PROCEDURES EXACTLY AS THE
CONSTITUTION AND THE
CONGRESS PRESCRIBED. TO BELIEVE
BASED ON THE EVIDENCE YOU HAVE
SEEN THAT MR. TRUMP ACTUALLY
WANTED AND INDEED WILLFULLY
INCITED AN INSURRECTION TO
OVERTHROW THE U.S. GOVERNMENT
WOULD
BE ABSURD. THE GATHERING ON
JANUARY SIXTH WAS SUPPOSED TO BE
AN ENTIRELY PEACEFUL EVENT.
THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE, INCLUDING MR. TRUMP,
SHOWED UP THAT DAY WITH
THAT INTENTION. A SMALL
PERCENTAGE, A SMALL FRACTION OF
THOSE PEOPLE THEN ENGAGED IN
TRULY
HORRIBLE BEHAVIOR, BUT AS WE NOW
KNOW, THAT THOSE ACTORS WERE
PREPLANNED AND PREMEDITATED AND
ACTED EVEN BEFORE THE SPEECH WAS
COMPLETED TO WHICH IS THE BASIS
OF THE ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT.
IT WAS PREPLANNED AND
PREMEDITATED BY FRIENDS LEFT AND
RIGHT GROUPS.
THE HOUSE MANAGERS FALSE
NARRATIVE IS A BRAZENLY
DISHONEST ATTEMPT TO SMEAR, TO
CANCEL CONSTITUTIONAL CANCEL
CULTURE, THEIR NUMBER ONE
POLITICAL OPPONENT TAKING
NEUTRAL STATEMENTS TAKING
POLITICAL RHETORIC, REMOVING
WORDS AND FACTS FROM CONTEXT AND
ASCRIBING TO THEM THE MOST
SINISTER
INTENTIONS POSSIBLE. THEIR STORY
WAS BASED NOT ON EVIDENCE, BUT
ON THE SHEER PERSONAL AND
POLITICAL ANIMUS. THE FLIMSY
THEORY OF INCITEMENT YOU HEARD
FROM THE HOUSE MANAGERS COULD BE
USED TO IMPEACH, INDICT OR EXPEL
COUNTLESS OTHER
POLITICAL LEADERS. MANY LEADING
FIGURES AND OTHER PARTIES HAVE
ENGAGED IN FAR MORE INCENDIARY
AND
DANGEROUS RHETORIC.
AND WE PLAYED SOME OF THEM. ARE
NOT GOING TO REPLAY IT. I'M NOT
GOING TO REPLAY YOU THE WORDS,
YOU ALL SAW THE EVIDENCE. I'M
NOT GOING TO REPLAY YOU MOB
SEEMS. I DON'T WANT TO GIVE
THOSE PEOPLE AT OTHER PLATFORM,
ANYMORE VIEW FROM THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE AS TO WHAT THEY DID. THEY
SHOULD
BE CANCELED.
DEMOCRAT POLITICIANS SPENT
MONTHS PRIOR TO JANUARY SIXTH
ATTACKING THE VERY LEGITIMACY OF
OUR NATION'S MOST CHERISHED
INSTITUTIONS AND TRADITIONS.
THEY DIDN'T JUST QUESTION THE
INTEGRITY OF ONE ELECTION, THEY
CHALLENGED THE INTEGRITY OF OUR
ENTIRE NATION. EVERYTHING FROM
OUR
FOUNDING FATHERS, OUR
CONSTITUTION DECLARATION
OF INDEPENDENCE, LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICERS AND UNITED STATES
MILITARY. THEY SAID THAT OUR
SOCIETY WAS ROOTED IN HATRED.
THEY EVEN SAID THAT AMERICA
DESERVED, AND I WILL QUOTE,
A RECKONING. AS YOU HEARD
YESTERDAY THROUGHOUT THE SUMMER,
DEMOCRAT LEADERS INCLUDING THE
CURRENT PRESIDENT AND VICE
PRESIDENT REPEATEDLY MADE
COMMENTS THAT PROVIDED MORAL
COMFORT TO MOBS ATTACKING POLICE
OFFICERS. DURING THAT TIME, MANY
OFFICERS ACROSS THE COUNTRY WERE
INJURED. AS WE ALL KNOW TWO
SHERIFF'S DEPUTIES IN LOS
ANGELES WERE AMBUSHED AND SHOT
AT POINT-BLANK RANGE. MEMBERS OF
THIS VERY BODY HAVE BEEN IN
DANGER. SENATORS FROM MAINE TO
KENTUCKY AND MOST POINTS IN
BETWEEN HAVE BEEN HARASSED
BY MOBS. LAST AUGUST, A MENACING
LEFT-WING MOB SWARMED SENATOR
RAND PAUL AND HIS WIFE AS
THEY LEFT THE WHITE HOUSE AND
THEY HAD TO BE RESCUED BY
POLICE. FOR MONTHS, OUR FEDERAL
COURTHOUSE IN PORTLAND WAS
PLACED UNDER SIEGE BY VIOLENT
ANARCHISTS WHO ATTACKED LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS DAILY AND
REPEATEDLY AND TRIED TO SET FIRE
TO THE BUILDING. SPEAKER PELOSI
DID NOT CALL THE VIOLENT SIEGE
OF THE FEDERAL BUILDING
INSURRECTION. SHE CALLED THE
FEDERAL AGENTS PROTECTING THE
COURTHOUSE QUOTE STORM TROOPERS.
THEY WERE BESIEGED BY MOBS
THROUGH BRICKS, ROCKS AND
BOTTLES AT SECRET SERVICE
AGENTS. SET FIRE TO A
HISTORIC STRUCTURE
WHEN MY CLIENT ADMINISTRATION
SENT IN THE NATIONAL GUARD TO
SECURE THE NATION'S CAPITAL CITY
ADMITS THE VIOLENCE DEMOCRAT
LEADERS DEMANDED THAT THE FORCES
BE WITHDRAWN. THE WASHINGTON DC
MAYOR SAID THE PRESENCE OF THE
NATIONAL GUARD WASN'T A FRONT TO
THE SAFETY OF THE DISTRICT
&gt;&gt; TOOK AN INADEQUATE AND
IRRESPONSIBLE FORCE POSTURE ON
JANUARY 6th BECAUSE OF THEIR
COMMITMENT TO THE FALSE
NARRATIVE OF WHAT HAPPENED LAST
JUNE. HOPEFULLY, WE CAN ALL NOW
AGREE
THAT THE ADMINISTRATION ACTED
PROPERLY BY TAKING ACTION TO
STOP A RIOTOUS MOB, ESTABLISHING
AN APPROPRIATE SECURITY
PERIMETER, AND PREVENT THE WHITE
HOUSE FROM POTENTIALLY BEING
OVERRUN.
ISSUING A DELAY IN ISSUING A
STATEMENT BY PRESIDENT TRUMP IS
SOMEHOW EVIDENCE THAT HE
CONSENTED OR SUPPORTED THE
VIOLENCE. JOE BIDEN, KAMALA
HARRIS, AND COUNTLESS OTHERS
REPEATEDLY CONFUSED TO CONDEMN
THE EXTREMISTS
, AS RIOTS WERE CONTINUING
DAILY, AND BUSINESSES WERE BEING
RAMSHACKLE, AS NEIGHBORHOODS
WERE BEING BURNED. AS BOMBS WERE
EXPLODING.
THEY REPEATEDLY REFUSED TO TELL
THEIR VIOLENT SUPPORTERS TO
STAND DOWN. SOME EVEN SUGGESTED
THAT THE MOBS ACTIONS WERE
JUSTIFIED. VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS
LITERALLY URGED HER FOLLOWERS TO
DONATE MONEY TO A FUND TO BAIL
OUT THE VIOLENT EXTREME RIOTERS
SO THAT THEY COULD GET OUT AND
CONTINUE TO DO IT OVER AND OVER
AGAIN.
SHE LATER SAID THAT THOSE FOLKS
WERE NOT GOING TO LET UP, AND
THAT THEY SHOULD NOT. ALL OF
THIS WAS FAR CLOSER
ACTUAL DEFINITION OF INCITEMENT,
THEN ANYTHING PRESIDENT TRUMP
HAS EVER SAID OR DONE, NEVERMIND
WHAT HE SAID ON THE SIXTH. IT IS
A HYPOCRISY
, THAT THE HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE
LAID AT THE FEET OF THIS
CHAMBER.
THE HOUSE MANAGER SUGGESTED IN
-- THAT THIS RECENT HISTORY IS
IRRELEVANT TO THE CURRENT
PROCEEDINGS. BUT, NOT ONLY IS
THE DEMOCRATS BEHAVIOR
SURROUNDING LAST YEAR'S RIOTS
HIGHLY RELEVANT AS PRESIDENT,
AND NOT ONLY DOES IT REVEAL THE
DISHONESTY AND INSINCERITY OF
THIS ENTIRE ENDEAVOR, IT ALSO
PROVIDES CRUCIAL CONTEXT THAT
SHOULD INFORM OUR UNDERSTANDING
OF THE EVENTS THAT TOOK PLACE ON
JANUARY 6th.
MANY OF THE PEOPLE WHO
INFILTRATED
IT SEEMS, THEY THOUGHT THAT IT
WAS ALL A GAME. THEY APPARENTLY
BELIEVE THAT VIOLENT MOBS,
DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY,
RIOTING, ASSAULTING POLICE, AND
VANDALIZING HISTORIC TREASURES
WAS SOMEHOW NOT ACCEPTABLE IN
THE UNITED STATES. WHERE MIGHT
THEY HAVE GOTTEN THAT IDEA?
I WOULD SUGGEST TO YOU THAT IT
WAS NOT FROM MR. TRUMP. IT WAS
NOT MR. TRUMP, IT WAS NOT ANYONE
IN THE REPUBLICAN PARTY, THAT
SPENT SIX MONTHS IMMEDIATELY
PRIOR TO THE CAPITAL ASSAULT
GIVING
RHETORICAL AID AND COMFORT TO
MOBS, MAKING EXCUSES FOR
RIOTERS, CELEBRATING RADICALISM
AND EXPLAINING THAT
ANGRY, FRUSTRATED, AND
MARGINALIZED PEOPLE WERE
ENTITLED TO BLOW OFF STEAM LIKE
DEATH. LET ME BE VERY CLEAR.
THERE CAN BE NO EXCUSE FOR
DEPRAVED ACTIONS OF THE RIOTERS
HERE AT THE CAPITAL, OR ANYWHERE
ELSE ACROSS THIS COUNTRY. 100%
OF THOSE GUILTY OF COMMITTING
CRIMES DESERVE LENGTHY PRISON
SENTENCES FOR THEIR SHAMEFUL AND
DEPRAVED CONDUCT. BUT, THIS
TRIAL HAS RAISED THE QUESTION
ABOUT WORDS, ACTIONS, AND
CONSEQUENT SIS. AS A NATION, WE
MUST ASK OURSELVES, HOW DID WE
ARRIVE AT THIS PLACE, WHERE
RIOTING AND PILLAGING WOULD
BECOME COMMONPLACE? I SUBMIT TO
YOU, THAT IT WAS MONTH AFTER
MONTH OF POLITICAL LEADERS AND
MEDIA PERSONALITIES BLOODTHIRSTY
FOR RATINGS, GLORIFYING CIVIL
UNREST AND
ATTACKING MEASURES THAT ARE
REQUIRED TO QUELL VIOLENT MOBS.
HOPEFULLY WE CAN LEAVE THIS
CHAMBER IN UNIFORM AGREEMENT
THAT ALL RIOTING IS BAD. AND
THAT LAW ENFORCEMENT DESERVES
OUR RESPECT AND SUPPORT
. THAT HAS BEEN MR. TRUMP'S
POSITION FROM THE BEGINNING. THE
REAL QUESTION IN THIS CASE IS,
WHO IS ULTIMATELY RESPONSIBLE
FOR SUCH ACT OF MAYHEM AND
VIOLENCE WHEN THEY ARE
COMMITTED. HOUSE DEMOCRATS WANT
TO DIFFERENT STANDARDS. ONE FOR
THEMSELVES, AND ONE FOR THEIR
POLITICAL OPPOSITION. THEY HAVE
CARRIED OUT A GROSSLY
UNCONSTITUTIONAL EFFORT TO
PUNISH MR. TRUMP FOR PROTECTED
FIRST AMENDMENT SPEECH. IT IS AN
EGREGIOUS VIOLATION OF HIS
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS, SINCE HE
UTTERED NOT A SINGLE WORD
ENCOURAGING VIOLENCE, THIS
ACTION CAN ONLY BE SEEN AS AN
EFFORT TO
CENSOR DISFAVORED POLITICAL
SPEECH, AND DISCRIMINATE AGAINST
A DISAPPROVED VIEWPOINT. IT IS
AN UNPRECEDENTED ACTION,
WITH THE POTENTIAL TO DO GRAVE
AND LASTING DAMAGE TO BOTH THE
PRESIDENCY, AND THE SEPARATION
OF POWERS, AND THE FUTURE OF
DEMOCRATIC SELF-GOVERNMENT.
YESTERDAY, WE PLAYED YOU A VIDEO
OF COUNTLESS DEMOCRAT MEMBERS OF
THE SENATE URGING THEIR
SUPPORTERS TO FIGHT. WE SHOWED
YOU THOSE VIDEOS NOT BECAUSE WE
THINK YOU SHOULD BE FORCIBLY
REMOVED FROM OFFICE FOR SAYING
THOSE THINGS, BUT BECAUSE YOU
KNOW YOU SHOULD NOT BE FORCIBLY
REMOVED FROM OFFICE FOR SAYING
THOSE THINGS. BUT, RECOGNIZING
THE HYPOCRISY
YESTERDAY, IN QUESTIONING, HOUSE
REPRESENTATIVE RASKIN ADMITTED
THAT
DEMOCRATS HAD INVENTED AN
ENTIRELY NEW LEGAL STANDARD. IN
FACT, THEY HAVE CREATED A NEW
LEGAL THEORY. THE RASKIN
DOCTRINE. THE RASKIN DOCTRINE IS
BASED ON NOTHING MORE THAN
DETERMINING PROTECTED SPEECH
BASED ON THE PARTY LABEL NEXT TO
YOUR NAME. REGARDLESS OF WHAT
YOU HAVE HEARD OR SEEN FROM THE
HOUSE MANAGERS, IF YOU PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION, YOU WILL SEE THAT ANY
SPEECH MADE BY DEMOCRAT ELECTED
OFFICIALS IS PROTECTED SPEECH,
WHILE ANY SPEECH MADE BY
REPUBLICAN ELECTED OFFICIALS IS
NOT PROTECTED.
THE CREATION OF THE RASKIN
DOCTRINE ACTUALLY REVEALS THE
WEAKNESS
OF THE HOUSE MANAGERS CASE. WE
REVIEWED THIS IN DEPTH
YESTERDAY. UNDER SUPREME COURT
PRECEDENT
-- BY THE WAY, BOND DID NOT BURN
HIS DRAFT CARD, HE HAD IT AS A
PART OF HIS DEFENSE. BUT IN
BOND, AND INWOOD, THE COURT
CLEARLY DIRECTED ALL TO KNOW
THAT ELECTED OFFICIALS HOLD THE
HIGHEST PROTECTIONS OF SPEECH.
THE HIGHEST PROTECTIONS, AND I
REMIND YOU WHY. BECAUSE, YOU ALL
NEED TO BE FREE TO HAVE ROBUST
POLITICAL DISCUSSION, BECAUSE
YOUR DISCUSSION
IS ABOUT HOW OUR LIVES ARE GOING
TO GO.
AND, THAT SHOULD NOT BE
SQUELCHED BY ANY POLITICAL
PARTY. ON EITHER SIDE OF THE
AISLE, NO MATTER WHO IS THE
MAJORITY PARTY AT THE TIME.
WHY WOULD THE HOUSE MANAGERS
MAKE UP THEIR OWN LEGAL
STANDARD? I WILL TELL YOU WHY.
BECAUSE, THEY KNOW THEY CANNOT
SATISFY THE EXISTING
CONSTITUTIONAL STANDARD SET
FORTH BY THE UNITED STATES
SUPREME COURT, WHICH HAS EXISTED
FOR MORE THAN HALF A CENTURY.
THEY ARGUE
THAT MR. TRUMP IS AN ELECTED
OFFICIAL HAS NO FIRST AMENDMENT
RIGHTS. IT IS THE COMPLETE
OPPOSITE OF THE LAW. WE HAVE
SHOWN YOU, WITHOUT
CONTRADICTION, THAT IS WRONG.
THEY ALSO KNOW THAT THEY CANNOT
SATISFY THE THREE-PART TEST OF
BRANDENBURG, AS ELUCIDATED IN
THE BIBLE BELIEVERS CASE.
WAS ABSOLUTELY NO EVIDENCE THAT
MR. TRUMP'S WORDS WERE DIRECTED
TO INCITING IMMINENT LAWLESS
ACTION.
THERE WAS NO EVIDENCE THAT MR.
TRUMP INTENDED HIS WORDS TO
INCITE VIOLENCE, AND THE
VIOLENCE WAS
PREPLANNED AND PREMEDITATED BY A
GROUP OF LAWLESS ACTORS WHO MUST
BE PROSECUTED TO THE FULLEST
EXTENT OF THE LAW, BUT IT PROVES
THAT HIS WORDS WEREN'T WHAT SET
THIS INTO MOTION. WHAT WAS THE
INCITEMENT? WITH NO ABILITY
AND NO EVIDENCE TO SATISFY THE
EXISTING CONSTITUTIONAL
STANDARDS, WHAT OUR HOUSE
MANAGERS TO DO? THEY HAD TO MAKE
UP THEIR OWN LAW. THIS IS NOT
ONLY INTELLECTUALLY DISHONEST,
FOLKS, IT IS DOWNRIGHT SCARY.
WHAT TYPE OF PRECEDENT WOULD BE
SET IF THE SENATE DID VOTE TO
CONVICT. CAN CONGRESS NOW IGNORE
SUPREME COURT PRECEDENT ON THE
CONTOURS OF PROTECTED FREE
SPEECH?
WILL CONGRESS BE PERMITTED TO
CONTINUALLY MAKE UP THEIR OWN
LEGAL STANDARDS, AND APPLY THOSE
NEW STANDARDS TO ELECTED
OFFICIALS SPEECH?
THIS WOULD ALLOW CONGRESS TO USE
THE AWESOME IMPEACHMENT POWER
AS A WEAPON TO IMPEACH THEIR
FELLOW COLLEAGUES IN THE
OPPOSING PARTY. THIS IS NOT A
PRESIDENT THAT THIS SENATE CAN
SET HERE TODAY.
IF THE SENATE ENDORSES THE HOUSE
DEMOCRATS ABSURD NEW THEORY, YOU
WILL SET A PRECEDENT THAT WILL
TROUBLE LEADERS FROM BOTH
PARTIES, LITERALLY FOR CENTURIES
TO COME.
BUT, THAT WILL NOT BE THE ONLY
DISGRACEFUL PRESIDENTS TO COME
FROM THIS CASE. THIS HAS BEEN,
PERHAPS, THE MOST UNFAIR AND
FLAGRANTLY UNCONSTITUTIONAL
PROCEEDING IN THE HISTORY OF THE
UNITED STATES SENATE.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN HISTORY,
CONGRESS HAS ASSERTED THE RIGHT
TO TRY AND PUNISH A FORMER
PRESIDENT WHO IS A PRIVATE
CITIZEN. NOWHERE
, IN THE CONSTITUTION, IS THE
POWER ENUMERATED OR IMPLIED.
CONGRESS HAS NO AUTHORITY, NO
RIGHT, AND NO BUSINESS HOLDING A
TRIAL OF CITIZEN TRUMP, LET
ALONE A TRIAL TO DEPRIVE HIM OF
SOME FUNDAMENTAL CIVIL RIGHTS.
THERE WAS MENTION OF A JANUARY
EXCEPTION ARGUMENT. THE JANUARY
EXCEPTION ARGUMENT IS A CREATION
OF THE HOUSE MANAGERS OWN
CONDUCT, BY DELAYING. THEY SAT
ON THE ARTICLE. THEY COULD HAVE
TRIED THE PRESIDENT WHILE HE WAS
STILL IN OFFICE, IF THEY REALLY
BELIEVED HE WAS AN IMMINENT
THREAT. THEY DID NOT. THE
JANUARY EXCEPTION IS A RED
HERRING, IT IS NONSENSE.
BECAUSE, FEDERAL, STATE,
LOCAL AUTHORITIES CAN
INVESTIGATE.
THE JANUARY EXCEPTION ALWAYS
EXPIRES ON JANUARY 20th.
HOUSE DEMOCRATS, IN THIS DEEPLY
UNFAIR TRIAL HAVE SHAMEFULLY
TRAMPLED EVERY TRADITION, NORM,
AND STANDARD OF DUE PROCESS. IN
A WAY THAT I HAVE NEVER, EVER,
SEEN BEFORE. MR. TRUMP WAS GIVEN
NO
RIGHT TO REVIEW THE SO-CALLED
EVIDENCE AGAINST HIM AT TRIAL.
HE WAS GIVEN NO OPPORTUNITY TO
QUESTION ITS PROPRIETY. HE WAS
GIVEN NO CHANCE TO ENGAGE IN
FACT-FINDING. MUCH OF WHAT WAS
INTRODUCED BY THE HOUSE WAS
UNVERIFIED SECOND OR THIRD HAND
REPORTING CRIBBED FROM A BIASED
NEWS MEDIA INCLUDING STORIES
BASED ON
ANONYMOUS SOURCES WHOSE
IDENTITIES ARE NOT EVEN KNOWN TO
THEM, LET ALONE MY CLIENT. THEY
MANUFACTURED AND DOCTORED
EVIDENCE, SO MUCH SO THAT THEY
HAD TO WITHDRAW IT.
THEY WENT ON FOR TWO DAYS, SO IN
THE EVENING I WAS ABLE TO GO
BACK AND TAKE A CLOSE LOOK AT
THIS STUFF. I SAW FROM MR.
CADMAN, AND MS. BATEMAN, AND MR.
BRENNAN, WE ALL WORKED HARD AND
LOOKED AT THE EVIDENCE. VOLUMES
IN TINY PRINT, AND
STARTED WITH LITERALLY 12 OR 14
HOURS, TO REALLY LOOK AT THE
EVIDENCE BEFORE WE HAD TO GO ON.
AND JUST IN THAT SHORT TIME OF
LOOKING AT THE EVIDENCE, WE SAW
THEM FABRICATING TWITTER
ACCOUNTS.
WE SAW THE MASKED MAN SITTING AT
HIS DESK WITH THE NEW YORK
TIMES, THERE. AND, WHEN WE LOOK
CLOSELY, WE FOUND THAT THE DATE
WAS WRONG, THE CHECK HAD BEEN
ADDED. THEY FABRICATED EVIDENCE.
THEY MADE IT UP. THEY NEVER
ADDRESSED THAT, IN THEIR CLOSING
. AS THOUGH IT WERE ACCEPTABLE.
AS THOUGH
AS THOUGH THAT IS THE WAY THAT
IT SHOULD BE DONE HERE IN THE
SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA. FRAUD. FLAT-OUT. FRAUD.
WHERE I COME FROM, IN THE COURTS
THAT I PRACTICE IN, THEY ARE
VERY HARSH WITH REPERCUSSIONS
FOR WHAT THEY PULLED IN THIS
TRIAL.
AS WE HAVE SHOWN, THE HOUSE
MANAGERS WERE CAUGHT CREATING
FALSE REPRESENTATIONS OF TWEETS
. MANIPULATING VIDEOS, AND
INTRODUCING INTO THE RECORD,
COMPLETELY DISCREDITED LIES,
SUCH AS THE FINE PEOPLE HOAX AS
FACTUAL EVIDENCE.
MOST OF WHAT THE HOUSE MANAGERS
HAVE SAID AND SHOWN YOU WOULD BE
INADMISSIBLE IN ANY RESPECTABLE
COURT OF LAW. THEY WERE NOT
TRYING A CASE, THEY WERE TELLING
A POLITICAL TALE. A FABLE. AND,
A PATENTLY FALSE ONE AT THAT.
HOUSE DEMOCRATS HAVE DENIED DUE
PROCESS, AND RUSH TO THE
IMPEACHMENT, BECAUSE THEY KNOW
THAT A FAIR TRIAL WOULD REVEAL
MR. TRUMP'S INNOCENCE OF THE
CHARGES AGAINST HIM.
THE MORE ACTUAL EVIDENCE THAT
COMES OUT, THE CLEARER IT IS
THAT THIS WAS A PREPLANNED, AND
PREMEDITATED ATTACK, WHICH HIS
LANGUAGE IN NO WAY INCITED.
BECAUSE THEIR CASE IS SO WEAK,
THE HOUSE MANAGERS HAVE TAKEN A
KITCHEN SINK APPROACH TO THE
SUPPOSEDLY SINGLE ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT. THEY ALLEGE THAT
MR. TRUMP INCITED THE JANUARY
6th VIOLENCE
. THEY ALLEGE THAT HE ABUSED
POWER BY ATTEMPTING TO PRESSURE
GEORGIA SECRETARY OF STATE
RAVENS BERGER TO UNDERMINE THE
RESULTS OF THE 2020 ELECTION,
AND THEY ALLEGE THAT HE GRAVELY
ENDANGER THE DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM
BY INTERFERING BY INTERFERING
WITH THE PEACEFUL TRANSITION OF
POWER. AT LEAST THREE THINGS,
THERE. UNDER THE SENATE RULES,
EACH OF THESE ALLEGATIONS MUST
HAVE BEEN ALLEGED IN A SEPARATE
ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT.
I NEED NOT REMIND THIS CHAMBER,
THAT RULE 23 OF THE RULES OF
PROCEDURE AND PRACTICE IN THE
SENATE, WHEN SITTING ON
IMPEACHMENT TRIALS
PROVIDES, IN PERTINENT PART,
THAT AN ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT
SHALL NOT BE DIVISIBLE, THEREON.
WHY IS THAT? BECAUSE, THE
ARTICLE AT ISSUE HERE ALLEGES
MULTIPLE WRONGS IN THE SINGLE
ARTICLE, IT WOULD BE IMPOSSIBLE
TO KNOW IF TWO THIRDS OF THE
MEMBERS AGREED ON THE ENTIRE
ARTICLE. OR JUST ON PARTS OF IT,
AS THE BASIS FOR A VOTE TO
CONVICT. BASED ON THIS ALONE,
THE SENATE MUST VOTE TO ACQUIT
MR. TRUMP.
OBEY YOUR OWN RULES, IF IT IS
NOT THE CONSTITUTION YOU ARE
GOING TO OBEY. IN SHORT, THIS
IMPEACHMENT HAS BEEN A COMPLETE
CHARADE FROM BEGINNING TO END.
THE ENTIRE SPECTACLE
HAS BEEN NOTHING BUT THE
UNHINGED PURSUIT OF A
LONG-STANDING POLITICAL VENDETTA
AGAINST MR. TRUMP BY THE
OPPOSITION PARTY. AS WE HAVE
SHOWN
, DEMOCRATS WERE OBSESSED WITH
IMPEACHING MR. TRUMP FROM THE
VERY BEGINNING OF HIS TERM. THE
HOUSE DEMOCRATS TRIED TO IMPEACH
HIM IN HIS FIRST YEAR. THEY
TRIED TO IMPEACH HIM IN HIS
SECOND YEAR. THEY DID IMPEACH
HIM IN HIS THIRD YEAR,
IMPEACHED HIM AGAIN IN HIS
FOURTH YEAR NOW, THEY HAVE
CONDUCTED A PHONY IMPEACHMENT
SHOW TRIAL, WHEN HE IS A PRIVATE
CITIZEN OUT OF OFFICE.
THIS HASTILY ORCHESTRATED AND
UNCONSTITUTIONAL CIRCUS
, IS THE HOUSE DEMOCRATS FINAL
DESPERATE ATTEMPT TO ACCOMPLISH
THEIR OBSESSIVE DESIRE OF THE
LAST FIVE YEARS. SINCE THE
MOMENT HE STEPPED INTO THE
POLITICAL ARENA, MY CLIENT --
SINCE MY CLIENT STEPPED IN, THEY
HAVE BEEN POSSESSED BY AN
OVERWHELMING ZEAL TO VANQUISH AN
INDEPENDENT-MINDED OUTSIDER TO
SHAME, DEMEAN, SILENCE, AND
DEMONIZE HIS SUPPORTERS. IN THE
DESPERATE HOPE THAT THEY WILL
NEVER EVER POSE AN ELECTORAL
CHALLENGE.
WE HEARD ONE OF THE CONGRESSMEN
ON THE SCREEN. IF YOU DON'T
IMPEACH HIM, HE MIGHT BE ELECTED
AGAIN. THAT IS THE FEAR.
THAT IS WHAT IS DRIVING THIS
IMPEACHMENT. WHEN YOU DELIBERATE
OVER YOUR DECISION, THERE ARE
FOUR DISTINCT GROUNDS
WHICH YOU MUST ACQUIT MY CLIENT.
FIRST, IS JURISDICTION.
NO JURISDICTION. IF YOU BELIEVE
THAT, YOU STILL GET TO SAY IT.
NUMBER TWO, RULE 23. IT HAD TO
BE DIVISIBLE. EACH ALLEGATION
HAD TO BE SINGULARLY SET OUT IN
FRONT OF YOU SO THAT IT COULD BE
VOTED ON, AND TO SEE IF TWO
THIRDS OF YOU THINK THAT THEY
PROVED THAT CASE OR NOT. THEY
DID NOT DO THAT. YOU'VE GOT TO
ASK YOURSELF, WHY? THEY KNOW THE
SENATE RULES. THEY GOT THEM, AND
SO DID I. WHY DID THEY DO IT?
BECAUSE, THEY HAVE NOT
INVESTIGATED. FIRST OF ALL. BUT
ALSO, WHAT THEY FOUND OUT, AS
THEY WERE PREPARING ALL OF THIS,
THEY COULD NOT DO IT. SO COME IF
THEY THREW AS MUCH IN AS THEY
COULD, AND MADE AS MANY
BOLD, BALD ALLEGATIONS AS THEY
COULD, THEN MAYBE, TWO THIRDS OF
YOU WOULD FALL FOR IT. THAT IS
WHY THE RULES DON'T ALLOW IT TO
GO THAT WAY.
DUE PROCESS, I HAVE EXHAUSTED
THE SUBJECT. IT IS A REALLY GOOD
REASON, FOR ALL OF YOU, ALL OF
YOU IN THIS CHAMBER, TO STOP THE
POLITICS. TO READ THE
CONSTITUTION AND APPLY IT TO
THIS PROCEEDING.
AND, ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE LACK
OF DUE PROCESS IS WAY OVER THE
TOP. SHOCKING. YOU MUST NOT
STAND FOR IT. AND
FIRST AMENDMENT. THE ACTUAL
FACTS OF THIS CASE. THERE WERE
NO WORDS OF INCITEMENT.
NOBODY GETS TO TELL YOU WHICH
GROUNDS TO PICK, AND NOBODY GETS
TO TELL YOU HOW MANY GROUNDS TO
CONSIDER. SENATORS, DO NOT LET
HOUSE DEMOCRATS TAKE THIS MANIC
CRUSADE ANY FURTHER. THE SENATE
DOES NOT HAVE TO GO DOWN THIS
DARK PATH OF ENTITY AND
DIVISION.
YOU DO NOT HAVE TO INDULGE THE
IMPEACHMENT LUST, DISHONESTY,
AND THE HYPOCRISY. IT IS TIME TO
BRING THIS UNCONSTITUTIONAL
POETICAL THEATER TO AN END.
THERE IS TIME TO ALLOW OUR
NATION TO MOVE FORWARD. IT IS
TIME TO ADDRESS THE REAL
BUSINESS PRESSING THIS NATION.
THE PANDEMIC. OUR ECONOMY.
RACIAL INEQUALITY.
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL INEQUALITY.
THESE ARE THE THINGS THAT YOU
NEED TO BE THINKING AND WORKING
ON, FOR ALL OF US IN AMERICA.
ALL OF US.
WITH YOUR VOTE, YOU CAN DEFEND
THE CONSTITUTION. YOU CAN
PROTECT DUE PROCESS. AND, YOU
CAN ALLOW
AMERICA'S HEALING TO BEGIN. I
URGE THE SENATE TO ACQUIT, AND
VINDICATE, THE CONSTITUTION OF
THIS GREAT REPUBLIC, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; WHEELED TIME. -- WE YIELD
TIME.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, SENATORS. I
UNDERSTAND
I TOTALLY HAVE AROUND 27
MINUTES, BUT I WILL RETURN ALL
OF THAT WITH JUST ABOUT FIVE
BACK TO YOU. THERE ARE A FEW
THINGS THAT I HAVE TO ADDRESS.
IN AN EXTRAORDINARY AND PERHAPS
UNPRECEDENTED ACT OF
SELF-RESTRAINT ON MY PART, I
WILL RESIST THE OPPORTUNITY TO
REBUT EVERY SINGLE FALSE THING
WHAT YOU HAVE JUST HEARD. WE
WILL RETURN TO YOU PERHAPS 22 OR
23 MINUTES.
A FEW POINTS. NUMBER ONE, WE
HAVE DEFINITELY MADE PROGRESS IN
THE LAST FEW DAYS, BECAUSE A FEW
DAYS AGO, THE PRESIDENT'S TEAM,
ALTHOUGH I THINK IT WAS PERHAPS
A MEMBER WHO HAS SINCE LEFT THE
TEAM, LECTURED US, THAT THIS WAS
NOT AN INSURRECTION. AND SAID,
THAT THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
WERE OUTRAGEOUS IN USING THE
WORD INSURRECTION. TODAY,
COUNSEL, IN THEIR CLOSING
STATEMENT SAID THAT IT WAS A
VIOLENT INSURRECTION, AND
DENOUNCED IT. I WOULD CERTAINLY
LOVE TO SEE PRESIDENT TRUMP ALSO
CALL IT A VIOLENT INSURRECTION,
AND DENOUNCED IT AS WELL. I
BELIEVE, THOUGH I DO NOT HAVE A
VERBATIM TEXT, THAT COUNSEL
CALLED FOR LONG SENTENCES
FOR THE PEOPLE WHO WERE
INVOLVED. AGAIN, I WOULD LOVE TO
HEAR THAT COME FROM THE
PRESIDENT, AS WELL. THE
PRESIDENT'S COUNSEL CLAIMS THAT
THERE IS NO PRECEDENT
IN THE BODY OF LAW THAT THE
SENATE HAS FOR IMPEACHING AND
CONVICTING A PRESIDENT WHO
INSIGHTS VIOLENT INSURRECTION
AGAINST THE CONGRESS AND THE
GOVERNMENT
OF THE UNITED STATES. I GUESS
THAT IS TRUE, BECAUSE IT NEVER
OCCURRED TO ANY OTHER PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES, FROM
GEORGE WASHINGTON TO JOHN ADAMS,
THOMAS JEFFERSON, JAMES MADISON,
TO JAMES MONROE, TO ABRAHAM
LINCOLN, TO RONALD REAGAN, TO
GEORGE W. BUSH, TO BARACK OBAMA,
TO INCITE A VIOLENT INSURRECTION
AGAINST THE UNION. YOU ARE
RIGHT. WE HAVE NO PRECEDENT FOR
THAT. SO, THEY THINK THAT IS
SOMEHOW A MARKET IN THEIR FAVOR.
A SCORE FOR THEM, THAT THIS
SENATE HAS TO BE THE FIRST ONE
TO DEFINE INCITEMENT OF VIOLENT
INSURRECTION AGAINST THE UNION.
AND SO, THE GENTLEMAN PUTS IT TO
ME. HE SAYS, INCITING
PRESIDENT FOR COMMITTING
INCITEMENT TO VIOLENCE
INSURRECTION AGAINST THE UNION
IS THE NEW RASKIN DOCTRINE. WE
HAVE TRIED TO CONVINCE HIM THAT
THERE ARE WELL-KNOWN PRINCIPLES
AND ELEMENTS OF INCITEMENT,
WHICH WE HAVE TALKED TO YOU
ABOUT AD NAUSEAM,
AND THAT THIS IS AN
INTRINSICALLY AND INHERENTLY
FACT-BASED JUDGMENT. BUT, IF
THAT IS THE RASKIN DOCTRINE,
THEN A PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES CANNOT INCITE VIOLENT
INSURRECTION AGAINST THE UNION
AND THE CONGRESS, THEN I EMBRACE
IT AND TAKE IT AS AN HONOR. MOST
LAW PROFESSORS NEVER GET A
DOCTRINE NAMED AFTER THEM, SO I
WILL ACCEPT THAT. FINALLY, THE
COUNCIL GOES BACK
TO JULIAN BOND'S CASE, BECAUSE I
THINK, IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS,
THEIR BEST ARGUMENT IS
PATHETICALLY WEAK AS IT IS, AND
IT'S REALLY ABOUT THE FIRST
AMENDMENT. REMEMBER, THE KEY
ARGUMENT IS ABOUT STIFLING
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S SPEECH.
SOMEONE TELL ME WHEN HIS SPEECH
HAS EVER BEEN STIFLED. HE SAYS
WHENEVER HE WANTS, WHATEVER HE
WANTS.
IF YOU CONVICTING FOR INCITEMENT
INSURRECTION HE WILL CONTINUE TO
SAY WHATEVER HE WANTS ON THAT
DAY. MEMBER, THEY REFERRED
YESTERDAY TO INTERFERENCE WITH
HIS LIBERTY, WHICH I FOUND
ABSOLUTELY BIZARRE, BECAUSE
EVERYBODY KNOWS THAT HE WILL NOT
SPEND ONE MINUTE IN PRISON OR
JAIL. FROM CONVICTION ON THESE
CHARGES. IT IS A CIVIL REMEDY TO
PROTECT ALL OF US
, TO PROTECT THE ENTIRE COUNTRY,
OUR CHILDREN, OUR CONSTITUTION,
OUR FUTURE. THAT IS WHAT
IMPEACHMENT, TRIAL, CONVICTION
ARE ALL ABOUT.
JULIAN BOND. I KNEW JULIAN BOND.
MOST PEOPLE SAID DON'T RESPOND
TO THIS BUT I HAVE TO RESPOND.
JULIAN BOND WAS A CIVIL RIGHTS
ACTIVIST WHO DECIDED TO GO INTO
POLITICS, LIKE THE PEOPLE IN
THIS ROOM, LIKE ALL OF US WHO
ARE IN POLITICS. AND, THEY TRIED
TO KEEP HIM OUT. HE WAS A MEMBER
OF THE STUDENT NONVIOLENT
COORDINATING COMMITTEE, WHICH
LAUNCHED THE VOTING RIGHTS
MOVEMENT IN AMERICA. THERE IS A
GREAT STORY THAT BOB MOSES CALLS
IN HIS BOOK, CALLED
EQUATIONS"
, HE WAS A MATHEMATICS PROFESSOR
AND HE SAW
BLACKS CIVIL RIGHTS PROTESTERS
IN MISSISSIPPI, COLLEGE STUDENTS
I THINK AT NORTH CAROLINA AT&amp;T.
HE SAW A PICTURE OF THEM IN THE
NEW YORK TIMES, AND THEY WERE
SITTING IN AT A LUNCH COUNTER
AND HE LOOKED AT THE PICTURE,
AND HE SAID, THEY LOOKED THE WAY
THAT I FELT. HE SAID HE HAD TO
GO DOWN SOUTH TO MISSISSIPPI.,
THEY LAUNCHED THE VOTING RIGHTS
MOVEMENT.
THAT IS WHERE THE PHRASE ONE
PERSON ONE VOTE COMES FROM. IT
WAS NOT INVENTED BY THE SUPREME
COURT, THEY WOULD GO
DOOR-TO-DOOR TO TRY TO REGISTER
PEOPLE TO VOTE. ANYWAY, JULIAN
BOND WAS A PART OF THAT. THE
STUDENT NONVIOLENT COORDINATING
COMMITTEE. NONVIOLENCE. IT WAS
THE END, AND IT WAS THE MEANS.
NONVIOLENCE. AND, HE RAN FOR THE
STATE LEGISLATURE IN GEORGIA. A
PATH THAT OTHER CIVIL RIGHTS
ACTIVIST FOLLOWED, LIKE OUR
GREAT LATE BELOVED COLLEAGUE
JOHN LEWIS IN OUR HEARTS TODAY.
AND,
WHEN HE GOT ELECTED, THEY WANTED
TO TRY TO KEEP HIM FROM BEING
SWORN INTO THE GEORGIA
LEGISLATURE. SO, THEY SAID THE
STUDENT NONVIOLENT COORDINATING
COMMITTEE HAS TAKEN A POSITION
AGAINST THE VIETNAM WAR. YOU
REMEMBER
,  YOU ARE A REMEMBER OF SNCC.
WE WILL NOT ADMIT YOU BECAUSE
YOU ARE AGAINST THE VIETNAM WAR.
AND THE SUPREME COURT IN ITS
WISDOM SAID THAT YOU CANNOT
PREVENT SOMEONE FROM SWEARING AN
OATH TO BECOME A MEMBER  OF A
LEGISLATIVE BODY BECAUSE OF A
POSITION THAT THEY TOOK, OR A
GROUP THEY WERE A PART OF,
BEFORE THEY WERE SWORN IN. THAT
IS THE EXACT OPPOSITE OF DONALD
TRUMP. HE GOT ELECTED TO OFFICE,
HE SWORE AN OATH TO THE
CONSTITUTION, TO PRESERVE,
PROTECT, AND DEFEND THE
CONSTITUTION.
HE SERVED AS PRESIDENT FOR FOUR
YEARS, RIGHT UP UNTIL THE END,
WHEN HE WANTED TO EXERCISE HIS
RIGHTS UNDER THE IMAGINARY
JANUARY EXCEPTION, AND HE
INCITED A VIOLENT MOB IN
INSURRECTION, TO COME UP HERE,
AND WE ALL KNOW WHAT HAPPENS. HE
IS BEING IMPEACHED AND CONVICTED
FOR VIOLATING HIS OATH OF OFFICE
THAT HE TOOK. HE IS NOT BEING
PREVENTED FROM TAKING HIS OATH
IN THE FIRST PLACE. THE FIRST
AMENDMENT IS ON OUR SIDE
. HE TRIED TO OVERTURN THE WILL
OF THE PEOPLE, THE VOICE OF THE
PEOPLE. HE LOST THAT ELECTION BY
MORE THAN 7 MILLION VOTES. SOME
PEOPLE DON'T WANT TO ADMIT IT.
COUNSEL FOR THE PRESIDENT COULD
NOT BRING THEMSELVES TO ADMIT
THAT THE ELECTION IS OVER. IN
ANSWER TO THE QUESTION FROM THE
DISTINCT GENTLEMAN FROM VERMONT,
HE REFUSED TO ANSWER THAT BUT HE
SAID IT WAS IRRELEVANT. DESPITE
ALL OF THE EVIDENCE THAT YOU
HAVE HEARD ABOUT THE BIG LIE,
AND HOW THAT SET THE STAGE FOR
HIS INCITEMENT OF THE
INSURRECTIONARY VIOLENCE AGAINST
US.
THE FIRST AMENDMENT IS ON OUR
SIDE. WE ARE DEFENDING THE BILL
OF RIGHTS. WE ARE DEFENDING THE
CONSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE.
WE ARE DEFENDING THE SEPARATION
OF POWERS, AND WE ARE DEFENDING
THE U.S. SENATE AND THE U.S.
HOUSE. AGAINST A PRESIDENT WHO
ACTED NO BETTER THAN A MARAUDER,
AND A MEMBER OF THAT MOB BY
INCITING THOSE PEOPLE TO COME
HERE, AND IN MANY WAYS, HE WAS
WORSE. HE NAMED THE DATE, HE
NAMED THE TIME, AND HE BROUGHT
THEM HERE, AND NOW HE MUST PAY
THE PRICE. THANK YOU, MR.
PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, MR. RASKIN.
&gt;&gt; ESTHER PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; THE MAJORITY LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT. THE SENATE IS
NOW READY TO VOTE ON THE ARTICLE
OF IMPEACHMENT, AND AFTER THAT
IS DONE, WE WILL ADJOURN THE
COURT OF IMPEACHMENT.
&gt;&gt; THE CLERK WILL READ THE
ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT.
&gt;&gt; ARTICLE 1. INCITEMENT OF
INSURRECTION.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATE WILL BE IN ORDER.
&gt;&gt; THE CONSTITUTION PROVIDES
THAT THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES SHALL HAVE THE
SOLE POWER OF IMPEACHMENT, AND
THAT THE PRESIDENT SHALL BE
REMOVED FROM OFFICE ON
IMPEACHMENT, FOUR AND CONVICTION
OF, TREASON, BRIBERY, OR OTHER
HIGH CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS.
FURTHER, SECTION 3 OF THE 14th
AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION
PROHIBITS ANY PERSON WHO HAS
ENGAGED IN INSURRECTION, OR
REBELLION, AGAINST THE UNITED
STATES, FROM HOLDING ANY OFFICE
OF THE UNITED STATES. IN HIS
CONDUCT WHILE IN PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES, AND IN
VIOLATION OF HIS CONSTITUTIONAL
OATH, FAITHFULLY TO OFFICE
EXECUTE THE OFFICE OF THE UNITED
STATES AND
HIS OATH TO PRESERVE, PROTECT,
AND DEFEND THE CONSTITUTION OF
THE UNITED STATES, AND IN
VIOLATION OF HIS CONSTITUTIONAL
DUTY TO TAKE CARE THAT THE LAWS
BE FAITHFULLY EXECUTED, DONALD
JOHN TRUMP ENGAGED IN HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS BY
INCITING VIOLENCE AGAINST THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
IN THAT ON JANUARY 6th, 2021,
PURSUANT TO THE 12th AMENDMENT
OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE
UNITED STATES, THE VICE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
AND THE SENATE, MET OF THE
SENATE CAPITAL FOR A JOINT
SESSION OF CONGRESS TO COUNT THE
VOTES OF THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE.
IN THE MONTHS PRECEDING THE
JOINT SESSION, PRESIDENT TRUMP
REPEATEDLY ISSUED FALSE
STATEMENTS ASSERTING THAT THE
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION RESULTS
WERE THE PRODUCT OF WIDESPREAD
FRAUD, AND SHOULD NOT BE
ACCEPTED BY THE AMERICAN PEOPLE,
OR CERTIFIED BY STATE OR FEDERAL
OFFICIALS. SHORTLY BEFORE THE
JOINT SESSION COMMENCED,
PRESIDENT TRUMP ADDRESSED A
CROWD
AT THE ELLIPSE IN WASHINGTON,
D.C. THERE, HE REITERATED FALSE
CLAIMS THAT WE WON THIS ELECTION
AND WON IT BY A LANDSLIDE. HE
ALSO WILLFULLY MADE STATEMENTS
THAT IN CONTEXT, ENCOURAGED
UNFORESEEABLE RESULTED IN
LAWLESS ACTION AS AT THE
CAPITAL, SUCH AS
, IF YOU DON'T FIGHT LIKE HELL,
YOU WON'T HAVE A COUNTRY
ANYMORE.  DUTY TO CERTIFY THE
RESULTS OF THE 2020 ELECTION,
ONLY FULLY BREACHED AND
VANDALIZED THE CAPITAL, INJURED
AND KILLED LAW ENFORCEMENT
PERSONNEL, MENACED MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS, THE VICE PRESIDENT,
AND CONGRESSIONAL PERSONNEL, AND
ENGAGED IN OTHER VIOLENT,
DEADLY, DESTRUCTIVE, AND
SEDITIOUS ACTS. PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S CONDUCT ON
GENUINE SIX, 2021, FOLLOWED HIS
PRIOR EFFORTS TO SUBVERT AND
OBSTRUCT THE CERTIFICATION OF
THE RESULTS OF THE 2020
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
THOSE PRIOR EFFORTS INCLUDED A
PHONE CALL ON JANUARY 2nd, 2021,
DURING WHICH PRESIDENT TRUMP
URGED THE SECRETARY OF STATE OF
GEORGIA, BRAD RAFFENSBERGER, TO
FIND ENOUGH VOTES TO  OVERTURN
THE GEORGIA PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION RESULTS, AND THREATEN
THE SECURITY
RAFFENSBERGER IF HE FAILED TO DO
SO. IN DOING SO, PRESIDENT TRUMP
GRAVELY ENDANGERED THE SECURITY
OF THE UNITED STATES AND ITS
DECISIONS OF GOVERNMENT. HE
THREATENED THE INTEGRITY OF ITS
SYSTEM, THE INSTITUTIONS OF
POWER, AND IMPERILED A COEQUAL
BRANCH OF GOVERNMENT. HE,
THEREFORE, BETRAYED HIS TRUST AS
PRESIDENT TO THE INJURY OF THE
PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES.
WHEREFORE, DONALD JOHN TRUMP
, BY SUCH CONDUCT, HAS
DEMONSTRATED THAT HE WILL REMAIN
A THREAT TO NATIONAL SECURITY,
DEMOCRACY, AND THE CONSTITUTION,
IF ALLOWED TO REMAIN IN OFFICE,
AND HAS ACTED IN A MANNER
GROSSLY INCOMPATIBLE WITH
SELF-GOVERNMENT, AND THE RULE OF
LAW. DONALD
JOHN TRUMP THUS WARRANTS
IMPEACHMENT AND TRIAL, REMOVAL
FROM OFFICE, AND
DISQUALIFICATION TO HOLD AND
ENJOY ANY OFFICE OF HONOR,
TRUST, OR PROFIT UNDER THE
UNITED STATES, AND DEMAND THAT
YOU, THE SENATE, DONALD JOHN
TRUMP SHOULD BE PUT FORTH TO
ANSWER THE QUESTION SET FORTH IN
THIS ARTICLE AND THAT SUCH
PROCEEDINGS, EXAMINATIONS,
TRIALS, AND JUDGMENTS, MIGHT BE
THEREUPON HAD AS OUR AGREEABLE
TO LAW AND JUSTICE.
&gt;&gt; EACH SENATOR, WHEN HIS OR HER
NAME IS CALLED,
WILL STAND IN HIS OR HER PLACE,
AND WILL VOTE GUILTY OR NOT
GUILTY AS REQUIRED BY RULE 23 OF
THE SENATE RULES OF IMPEACHMENT.
ARTICLE 1, SECTION 3, CLAUSE 6
OF THE CONSTITUTION, REGARDING
THE VOTE REQUIRED FOR CONVICTION
ON IMPEACHMENT PROVIDES THAT,
QUOTE, NO PERSON SHALL BE
CONVICTED WITHOUT THE
CONCURRENCE OF TWO THIRDS OF THE
MEMBERS PRESENT,". THE QUESTION
IS ON THE ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT. SENATORS, HOW SAY
YOU? IS THE RESPONDENT, DONALD
JOHN TRUMP, GUILTY, OR NOT
GUILTY? A ROLL CALL VOTE IS
REQUIRED, AND THE CLERK WILL
CALL THE ROLE.
&gt;&gt; MS. BALDWIN?
MS. BALDWIN, GUILTY. MR.
BARRASSO? MR. BARRASSO, NOT
GUILTY. MR. BENNETT? MR.
BENNETT, GUILTY.
MRS. BLACKBURN, NOT GUILTY. MR.
BLUMENTHAL? MR. BLUMENTHAL,
GUILTY. MR. BLUNT? MR. BLUNT,
NOT GUILTY. MR. BOOKER?
MR. BOOKER, GUILTY. MR. BOZEMAN?
MR. BOZEMAN, NOT GUILTY. MR.
BRAUN? MR. BRAUN, NOT GUILTY.
MR. BROWN? MR. BROWN, GUILTY.
MR. BURR?
MR. BURR, GUILTY. MISS CANTWELL?
MISS CANTWELL, GUILTY.
CAPITAL? NOT GUILTY. MR. PARDON?
MR. CARDIN, GUILTY.
MR. CARPER? MR. CARPER, GUILTY.
MR. CASEY?
MR. CASSIDY? MR. CASSIDY,
GUILTY. MS. COLLINS?
MS. COLLINS, GUILTY. MR. KENT?
MR. CANS, GUILTY.
MR. CORNYN? MR. CORNYN, NOT
GUILTY. MS. CORTEZ-MASTER?
GUILTY. MR. COTTON? MR. COTTON,
NOT GUILTY. MR. KRAMER?
MR. KRAMER, NOT GUILTY. MR.
CRAPO? MR. KRAMER, NOT GUILTY.
MR. CRUISE?
MR. CRUZ, NOT GUILTY. MR.
DAINES?  MR. DAINES, NOT GUILTY.
MR. DUCKWORTH? MR. DUCKWORTH,
GUILTY. MR. DURBIN? MR. DURBIN,
GUILTY. MS. ERNST?
MS. ERNST, NOT GUILTY. MRS.
FEINSTEIN? MRS.
GUILTY. MRS. FISHER? MRS.
FISHER, NOT GUILTY. MRS.
GILLIBRAND? MRS. GILLIBRAND,
GUILTY. MR. GRAHAM?
MR. GRAHAM, NOT GUILTY. MR.
GRASSLEY? MR. GRASSLEY, NOT
GUILTY. MR. HAGGERTY? MR.
HAGGERTY, NOT GUILTY.
HASSAN? MS. HASSAN, GUILTY. MR.
HOLLY? MR. HOLLY, NOT GUILTY.
MR. HEINRICH? MR. HEINRICH,
GUILTY. MR. HICKENLOOPER?
HICKENLOOPER, GUILTY. MS.
HIRANO? MS. HIRANO, GUILTY.
HOVEN? MR. HOVEN, NOT GUILTY.
MRS. HYDE-SMITH? MRS.
HYDE-SMITH, NOT GUILTY. MR. IN
HALF?
MR. INHOFF?  MR. INHOFF, NOT
GUILTY.
JOHNSON, GUILTY. MR. KANE? MR.
KANE, GUILTY. MR. KELLY? MR.
KELLY, GUILTY. MR. KENNEDY? MR.
KENNEDY, NOT GUILTY. MR. KING?
MR. KING, GUILTY. MS. KLOBUCHAR?
MS. KLOBUCHAR, GUILTY. MR.
LANGFORD? MR. LANGFORD, NOT
GUILTY. MR. LEAHY? MR. LEAHY,
GUILTY. MR. LEE? MR. LEE, NOT
GUILTY. MR. LUJAN?
MR. LUJAN, GUILTY. MS. LOOMIS?
MS. LOOMIS, NOT GUILTY. MR.
MANSION? MR. MANSION, GUILTY.
MR. MARKEY? MR.
MR. MARSHALL? MR. MARSHALL, NOT
GUILTY. MR. McCONNELL? MR.
McCONNELL, NOT GUILTY. MR.
MENENDEZ? MR. MENENDEZ, GUILTY.
MR. MERKLEY? MR. MERKLEY,
GUILTY. MR. MORAN? MR. MORAN,
NOT GUILTY. MS. MURKOWSKI?
MS. MURKOWSKI, GUILTY. MR.
MURPHY? MR. MURPHY, GUILTY.
MURRAY? MRS. MURRAY, GUILTY. MR.
OSSOFF? MR. OSSOFF, GUILTY.
MR. PADILLA? MR. PADILLA,
GUILTY. MR. PAUL? MR. PAUL, NOT
GUILTY. MR. PETERS? MR. PETERS,
GUILTY.
MR. PORTMAN, NOT GUILTY. MR.
REED? MR. REED, GUILTY.
MR. RICH? MR. RISCH, NOT GUILTY.
MR. ROMNEY? MR. ROMNEY, GUILTY.
MS. ROSEN?
MS. ROSEN, GUILTY. MR. ROUNDS?
MR. ROUNDS, NOT GUILTY. MR.
RUBIO?
MR. RUBIO, NOT GUILTY. MR.
SANDERS? MR. SANDERS, GUILTY.
MR. SASS, GUILTY. MR. SHOTS? MR.
SHOTS, GUILTY. MR. SCHUMER?
MR. SCHUMER, GUILTY. MR. SCOTT,
OF FLORIDA? MR. SCOTT, OF
FLORIDA, NOT GUILTY.
MR. SCOTT OF SOUTH CAROLINA, NOT
GUILTY. MRS. SHAHEEN? MRS.
SHAHEEN, GUILTY. MR. SHELBY? MR.
SHELBY NOT GUILTY.
MS. CINEMA, GUILTY. MRS. SMITH?
MS. SMITH, GUILTY. MISSED
AVENUE? GUILTY. MR. SULLIVAN?
MR. SULLIVAN, NOT GUILTY. MR.
TESTER? MR. TESTER, GUILTY. MR.
SOON?
MR. THUNE, NOT GUILTY. MR.
TILLIS? MR. TILLIS, NOT GUILTY.
MR. TOOMEY?  MR. TILLIS, GUILTY.
MR. TURBERVILLE? NOT GUILTY. MR.
VAN HOLLEN? MR. VON HOLLAND,
GUILTY. MR. WARNER? MR. WARNER,
GUILTY. MR. WARNOCK? MR.
WARNOCK, GUILTY. IS WARREN?
WARREN, GUILTY. MR. WHITEHOUSE?
MR. WHITEHOUSE, GUILTY. MR.
RICKER? MR. RICKER, NOT GUILTY.
MR. WYDEN?
MR. YOUNG? MR. YOUNG, NOT
GUILTY.
&gt;&gt; THE YEAS ARE 57, THE NAMES
ARE 43. TWO THIRDS OF THE SENATE
NOT HAVING VOTED GUILTY,
RESPONDED FOR DONALD JOHN TRUMP,
AS CHARGED IN THE ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT, THE OFFICER DIRECTS
THE JUDGMENT TO BE ENTERED AS
ACCORDING TO THE JUDGMENT OF THE
SENATE AS FOLLOWS, THE SENATE
HAVING TRIED DONALD JOHN TRUMP,
FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES IN THE COURT OF
IMPEACHMENT, EXHIBITED AGAINST
HIM BY THE HOUSE
REPRESENTATIVES. TWO THIRDS OF
THE SENATE, NOT HAVING BEEN
FOUND GUILTY OF THE CHARGE
CONTAINED THEREIN, IS THEREFORE
ORDERED
THAT DONALD JOHN TRUMP, AND HE
IS HEREBY ACQUITTED OF THE
CHARGE IN SAID ARTICLE.
&gt;&gt; MAJORITY LEADERS RECOGNIZED.
&gt;&gt; I SEND AN ORDER TO THE DESK.
&gt;&gt; THE CLERK ORDERED.
&gt;&gt; SENT TO
STATE AS PROVIDED BY THE RULES
OF PROCEDURE IN THE SENATE,
THE JUDGMENT OF THE SENATE IN
THE CASE OF DONALD JOHN TRUMP,
AND TRANSMIT A CERTIFIED COPY OF
THE JUDGMENT TO EACH.
&gt;&gt; WITHOUT OBJECTION, THE ORDER
WILL BE ENTERED.
&gt;&gt; OUR MOVE THAT THE
SENATE, ON THE ISSUE OF
IMPEACHMENT OF DONALD JOHN
TRUMP, RESIGNED.
&gt;&gt; SITTING IN THE COURT OF
IMPEACHMENT, STANDS ADJOURNED.
CAN HAVE ORDER, PLEASE? THE
PRESIDING OFFICE OF THE ACTING
SERGEANT AT ARMS WILL ESCORT THE
HOUSE MANAGERS OUT OF THE SENATE
CHAMBER.
&gt;&gt;
THE SENATE VOTES NOT TO CONVICT
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP OF
INCITING AN INSURRECTION, AND
THE CHARGE OF HIGH CRIMES AND
MISDEMEANORS. YOU CAN SEE, THE
SENATE HAS NOW GAMBLED OUT,
SEVEN REPUBLICANS JOINED WITH
THE ENTIRE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS, IN
A VOTE TO CONVICT, MAKING THIS
THE MOST BIPARTISAN IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL IN HISTORY, YET IT WAS NOT
ENOUGH TO MEET THE 67 VOTES
NEEDED FOR CONVICTION. LET'S
LISTEN NOW TO THE SENATE FLOOR,
FOR A MOMENT.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATE IS NOT IN ORDER.
THE SENATE WILL BE IN ORDER.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, I ASK
UNANIMOUS CONSENT THE SENATE TO
BE IN A PERIOD OF MOURNING
BUSINESS WITH SENATORS PERMITTED
TO SPEAK THEREIN FOR UP TO 10
MINUTES EACH.
&gt;&gt; WITHOUT OBJECTION, SO
ORDERED.
&gt;&gt; NOW, SENATORS CAN TAKE TO THE
FLOOR BUT THE MOST IMPORTANT
NEWS OF THIS DAY IS THAT DONALD
TRUMP IS ACQUITTED, ESSENTIALLY
IN THIS TRIAL. THIS IS A
WASHINGTON POST SPECIAL REPORT.
I'M LINDA CASEY, WE WILL BE
WATCHING TO SEE IF IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS AND PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
LAWYERS SPEAK AT THE
MICROPHONES, WHICH WE DO
ANTICIPATE THEM DOING HERE. A
VICTORY FOR DONALD TRUMP'S
LAWYERS, I'M GOING TO BRING
JAMES HOME AND INTO THE
CONVERSATION.
A VICTORY FOR HIS LAWYERS, AND
FOR DONALD TRUMP, BUT FRANKLY,
JAMES, NOT BASED ON THE WAY THEY
ARGUED THE CASE. EVEN JUST NOW,
IN THESE CLOSING ARGUMENTS, WE
HEARD DONALD TRUMP'S LAWYERS
MAKE FALSE STATEMENTS, CERTAIN
THINGS THAT JUST ARE NOT TRUE.
YOU KNOW, THINGS THAT DON'T EVEN
GET TO THE HEART OF THE CASE,
BUT WE COULD ALL SEE AND HEAR
WITH OUR OWN EYES AND EARS, WERE
DIRECTLY IN CONTRADICTION TO
BOTH THE EVIDENCE, AS WELL AS
WHAT THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
HAD LITERALLY JUST SAID MOMENTS
BEFORE
. WE WILL TALK MORE ABOUT HOW WE
GOT HERE, BUT LET'S JUST GET
YOUR REACTION RIGHT NOW, TO THE
NEWS OF HOW THIS VOTE WENT
TODAY.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, IT IS A VICTORY FOR
TRUMP. HE, IN THEORY, CAN RUN
AGAIN FOR PRESIDENT IN 2024,
WHICH IS A SIGNIFICANT. HISTORY
WILL JUDGE TRUMP, EVEN IF THE
SENATE DID NOT JUDGE HIM
NEGATIVELY. AS YOU NOTED, THIS
IS THE MOST BIPARTISAN
IMPEACHMENT VOTE IN U.S.
HISTORY. ONE OF THE REASONS IT
WAS SO BIPARTISAN, SEVEN
REPUBLICANS VOTED TO CONVICT THE
FORMER PRESIDENT OF THEIR OWN
PARTY, IS THAT THEY DID NOT FEEL
SATISFIED WITH THE CASE THAT THE
PRESIDENT'S LAWYERS MADE. THE
FORMER PRESIDENT'S LAWYERS
REFUSED TO GIVE A TIMELINE,
REFUSED TO TALK ABOUT WHAT TRUMP
DID AFTER THE CAPITAL WAS
BREACHED. AND,
I THINK JAMIE RASKIN HAD A LOT
OF ANALOGIES THIS WEEK. HE WAS A
FORMER CONSTITUTIONAL LAW
PROFESSOR. THEY LIKE TO USE
ANALOGIES. A LOT OF THESE
REPUBLICANS WHO WERE ON THE
FENCE, INCLUDING BILL CASSIDY
WHO WAS YESTERDAY WALKING AROUND
WITH A DRAFT SPEECH OF THE
POTENTIAL VOTE TO ACQUIT THE
PRESIDENT, EVERYONE WE WERE
WATCHING, INCLUDING WHEN WE WERE
NOT WATCHING, RICHARD BYRD OF
NORTH CAROLINA, RETIRING NEXT
YEAR, DECIDED TO VOTE TO
CONVICT. THE ANALOGY THAT LEAD
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER RASKIN USED
THERE IN HIS FINAL MOMENTS, I
THINK RESONATED WITH THOSE
REPUBLICANS, WHICH IS THAT IT
REALLY WAS QUITE RELEVANT TO
THEM, WHAT TRUMP DID AFTER THE
CAPITAL WAS BREACHED.
HIS REFUSAL TO SEND HELP, HIS
DELAY IN TELLING PEOPLE TO LEAVE
PEACEFULLY REALLY DID SAY
SOMETHING ABOUT HIS INTENT, THAT
IS WHAT RASKIN WAS ARGUING WHEN
HE SAID IT'S LIKE AN ARSONIST
WHO STARTS A FIRE, THE USE WATER
TO PUT THE FIRE OUT RIGHT AWAY,
YOU CAN ARGUE IT WAS AN ACCIDENT
BUT IF THEY WATCH THAT THEN YOU
CAN'T.
&gt;&gt; WAS GO TO RHONDA COLEMAN FOR
WHAT THIS MEANS FOR SEVEN
REPUBLICANS TO SAY THAT DONALD
TRUMP IS GUILTY OF HIGH CRIMES
AND MISDEMEANORS.
&gt;&gt;
ONE OF THE MAIN ARGUMENTS FROM
HOUSE REPUBLICANS WHEN THEY MADE
THEIR IMPEACHMENT VOTE AS WELL
AS SOME SENATE REPUBLICANS IS
THAT THESE PROCEEDINGS WERE VERY
POLITICAL. THEY WERE DRIVEN BY
PARTISANSHIP, AND HOW DEMOCRATS
FOR A LONG TIME WANTED TO
IMPEACH DONALD TRUMP, HOWEVER,
WE ARE SEEING THAT SEVEN MEMBERS
OF HIS OWN PARTY CAME FORWARD
TODAY, AND DECIDED TO VOTE TO
CONVICT HIM. THAT IS HISTORIC OF
COURSE, AND IT IS ALSO QUITE
STUNNING.
AND TAKING BACK TO WHEN I WAS
HERE LAST YEAR, COVERING THE
FIRST IMPEACHMENT VOTE, I THINK
IT WOULD HAVE BEEN UNBELIEVABLE
FOR MANY OF US IN THE CONDITION
THE SENATE IS IN, IN SUCH A
POLARIZED NATURE, TO HEAR THAT
SEVEN REPUBLICANS HAVE VOTED
WITH THE DEMOCRATS TO CONVICT
HIM. SO, THAT ARGUMENT THAT THIS
IS A POLITICAL STUNT, I DON'T
KNOW IF THAT HOLDS WATER
ANYMORE, IF IT WILL HOLD WATER
HISTORICALLY, BECAUSE WE HAVE
JUST SEEN SEVEN MEMBERS OF THE
PRESIDENT'S PARTY DISCUSSED TO
GO WITH DEMOCRATS.
RICHARD BURR, I WAS THINKING
ABOUT HIM, AND I WAS LISTENING
OUT FOR HIS NAME, SPECIFICALLY
BECAUSE HE CAME OUT WITH A
STATEMENT SAYING THAT TRUMPS
RHETORIC LED TO THE
INSURRECTION. THAT WAS A PRESS
RELEASE HE PUT OUT ON THE DAY OF
THE INSURRECTION. AND, BECAUSE
HE IS NOT RUNNING FOR
RE-ELECTION I WAS KEEPING MY EYE
ON HIM. HE OF COURSE, IS ONE OF
THE SEVEN REPUBLICANS. BUT
AGAIN, YOU ARE JUST SEEING THAT
THIS BIPARTISAN NATURE SHOWS YOU
THAT THIS WAS NOT POLITICAL, AT
THE END. THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS, THEIR WORK IN TRYING
TO ESTABLISH THAT THE PRESIDENT
WAS DISTANT AND DID NOT HELP
WHEN THE CAPITAL WAS UNDER
INSURRECTION REALLY HIT HOME AND
STRUCK A CHORD WITH THESE
MEMBERS, AND WE ARE SEEING NOW
THAT THIS IS
A VERY HISTORIC MOMENT, THAT
THESE REPUBLICANS VOTED IN THIS
WAY.
&gt;&gt; YOU ARE SEEING SENATORS
WALKING AWAY THERE. THERE IS
MARK WARNER OF VIRGINIA, IT IS
ICY OUT. A LOT OF THE SENATORS
ARE EAGER TO HIT THE ROAD AND
GET HOME TO THEIR STATES,
BECAUSE THE SENATE IS IN RECESS
NEXT WEEK. SO, EVEN THOUGH WE
HEARD IN A FASCINATING TWIST,
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LAWYER SAY IT
WAS TIME TO GET ON WITH
BUSINESS, INCLUDING RACIAL
JUSTICE,
THEY ARE IN RECESS NEXT WEEK.
THAT DOES NOT MEAN THEY WON'T BE
WORKING. SENATORS DO THINGS FROM
THEIR HOME DISTRICT, OBVIOUSLY,
BUT THEY ARE NOT SCHEDULED TO BE
IN WASHINGTON, NEXT WEEK. SO,
THAT DOESN'T THROW SOME COLD
WATER ONTO THIS QUESTION OF HOW
QUICKLY THEY HAD TO MOVE ON THIS
TO GET ONTO COVID-19 RELIEF AND
EVERYTHING ELSE. WE CAN TALK
ABOUT THAT IN A MOMENT, BUT I
WANT TO SHARE THIS REPORTING
FROM OUR COLLEAGUE, MIKE, TO
THAT POINT THAT RHONDA MADE
ABOUT SENATOR BURR'S VOTE, MIKE
SAYS THAT THERE WERE GASPS IN
THE CHAMBER WHEN SENATOR BURR
VOTED GUILTY.
HERE IS WHAT ELSE WE KNOW,
SENATOR PAT TOOMEY OF
PENNSYLVANIA JUST PAST REPORTERS
AND SAID THE VOTE TO CONVICT WAS
THE RIGHT CALL, BUT HE WOULD NOT
COMMENT FURTHER THAN THAT.
SENATOR TOOMEY, ANOTHER ONE OF
THOSE WHO IS RETIRING.
&gt;&gt; EXACTLY. WHEN YOU HEARD BURR
EARLIER IN THE LINEUP, YOU HEARD
THAT GASP AND DID RAISE THE
QUESTION OF HOW MANY OF THE
OTHER FOUR RETIRING
RICHARD SHELBY FROM ALABAMA DID
NOT DO SO NOR DID CHUCK GRASSLEY
COME WHO CONTINUES TO BE THE
SUBJECT
AND ALSO FOUND TRUMP NOT GUILTY.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO BACK TO YOU,
. IT IS FOR THOSE WHO DID VOTE
GUILTY
. LOVE THAT YOU PUT IN CONTEXT
AND REMINDED US ABOUT A
STATEMENT SENATOR BURR SENT OUT
THAT THERE WAS OTHER REPUBLICANS
COME INCLUDING MITCH McCONNELL
WAS ALSO CRITICIZED PRESIDENT
TRUMP AND THE LANGUAGE HE USED
AND HIS ROLE IN INCITING THOSE
ATTACKERS ON JANUARY 6 WHO
ULTIMATELY WALKED BACK AND DID
NOT VOTE TO CONVICT SO WHAT
MAKES A DIFFERENCE FOR THOSE WHO
DID?
&gt;&gt; WELL, WHAT MAKES THE
DIFFERENCE IS THERE ALL GOING TO
HAVE TO EXPLAIN
IN ONE WAY OR ANOTHER TO ANY
CONSTITUENTS WHO ARE WONDERING
ABOUT THEIR VOTE IF THEY ARE
FROM A
SPACE THAT WANTED TO SEE
PRESIDENT TRUMP ACQUITTED AND
THEY WILL PROBABLY HAVE TO
EXPLAIN THAT AND THE OTHER ONE
WHO PUT OUT IS IN THE VERY
EARLY.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL HOLD ONE MOMENT,
RHONDA AND IT IS SENATOR BLUNT
AT THE MICROPHONE.
&gt;&gt; I THINK YOU MAKE A DECISION
LIKE THIS BASED ON ANY PARTY
DECISION OR POLITICAL DECISION.
IT WAS MY VIEW WHEN WE STARTED
AND IT IS MY VIEW NOW THAT THE
PURPOSE OF PRESIDENTIAL
IMPEACHMENT
IS TO REMOVE A PERSON FROM
OFFICE AND NOT TO PUNISH AN
INDIVIDUAL WHO IS NO LONGER IN
OFFICE. THERE ARE OTHER WAYS TO
DO THAT, IF OTHERS THINK THAT IS
APPROPRIATE THAT THIS IS A
POLITICAL PROCESS
BUT NOBODY ARGUES THAT. FRANKLY,
I THOUGHT THE HOUSE MANAGERS
MADE A MISTAKE BY ASSUMING THAT
BECAUSE ALL OF THE DEMOCRATS AND
A HANDFUL OF REPUBLICANS HAD
VOTED THAT WE HAVE JURISDICTION
TO NEVER ARGUE WITH THOSE OF US
WHO THOUGHT WE DID NOT HAVE
JURISDICTION WHILE WE WERE WRONG
. MY PERSONAL VIEW IS THE
CONSTITUTION IS CLEAR ON THAT
AND THE PEOPLE I WORK FOR IF YOU
ASK PEOPLE
THOUGHT ABOUT THIS IN MISSOURI
AND WHAT THE PURPOSE OF
IMPEACHMENT WOULD BE, NINE OUT
OF 10 OF THEM WOULD SAY TO
REMOVE SOMEONE FROM OF IS A NOT
TO PUNISH SOMEBODY WHO
PREVIOUSLY SERVED IN OFFICE.
&gt;&gt; ONE OF THE REPUBLICAN
SENATORS WHO VOTED TO ACQUIT
DONALD TRUMP.  JAMES HOHMANN ,
WE WERE WARNED BY IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS THAT SENATORS MIGHT
GIVE THAT IS THE REASON, THE
CONSTITUTIONAL QUESTION. THEY
COMPARED IT TO A DEFENSE
ATTORNEY FILING A MOTION, LOSING
THAT MOTION IN A COURT
PROCEEDING AND NOT MOVING ON
. UNSETTLED WAS THE QUESTION OF
CONSTITUTIONALITY IF YOU ARE A
SENATOR WHO DID NOT THINK IT WAS
CONSTITUTIONAL BUT THE BODY YOU
SERVE IN VOTED IT WAS.
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN USE THAT AS A REASON
TO VOTE NO. IT IS NOT LIQUID DO
NOT SPEND ALL DAY TUESDAY
HEARING ARGUMENTS FROM BOTH
SIDES ABOUT THE JURISDICTIONAL
MATTER AND CONSTITUTIONAL
MATTER. JAMIE RASKIN CALLED IT
THE JANUARY EXEMPTION AND THE
IDEA  IF YOU ACCEPT THE LOGIC
ABOUT WHAT SENATOR BLUNT JUST
SAID, ANYTHING A PRESIDENT DOES
CANNOT BE PUNISHED BY CONGRESS
BECAUSE HE IS LEAVING. HE IS
SOMEONE WHO IS AN ESTABLISHMENT
MINDED SENATOR, BUT HE IS UP FOR
REELECTION NEXT YEAR AND A STATE
WHERE JOSH HAWLEY IS THE JUNIOR
SENATOR AND IS A LEADING FIGURE
BEHIND THE CHALLENGE OF THE
CERTIFICATION JANUARY 6. A POLL
SHOWED JOSH HAWLEY IS MORE
POPULAR IN MISSOURI
THEN ROY BLUNT IS AND HE IS
CONCERNED ABOUT A PRIMARY
CHALLENGE. TALKING ABOUT THE
CONSTITUTIONALITY
GIVES HIM A PROCEDURAL OUT SO
THAT HE DOES NOT HAVE TO DEFEND
TRUMP'S UNDERLYING CONDUCT.
&gt;&gt; WE JUST SAW THE ATTORNEYS OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP. LET'S GO TO OUR
COLLEAGUE WHO HAS BEEN FOCUSING
ON THE DEFENSE THIS WEEK AND
WHAT IS YOUR TAKE AWAY, JOYCE
?
&gt;&gt; Reporter: IT WAS DIFFICULT TO
EXTRACT WHAT FORM OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S DEFENSE WAS  TO BE
CHARGED INCITEMENT OF
INSURRECTION
. HE TALKED MORE ABOUT THE BLACK
LIVES MATTER PROTEST THAN HE DID
ABOUT THE VIOLENCE THAT DAY THAT
WE SAW ON JANUARY 6. HE DID NOT
ILLUSTRATE WHAT LED TO THE
FIVE DEATHS OR ILLUSTRATE THE
COUNTLESS INJURIES THAT WE SAW
THAT DAY OR WHAT LED TO THE
HOUSE AND THE SENATE HAVING TO
BE EVACUATED  BECAUSE MEMBERS OF
THE MOB CAME TO THE CAPITOL
ATTACKING POLICE OFFICERS .
HE DID TRY TO DRAW A FALSE
EQUIVALENCY AND TRUMP'S RESPONSE
TO THAT AND I WILL SEND IT BACK
TO YOU AND WE CAN TALK MORE
ABOUT THIS.'S BUT WE WANT TO GO
TO THE FLOOR BECAUSE THE
MAJORITY LEADER IS SPEAKING.
&gt;&gt;
CONTRIBUTION TO AMERICAN CIVIL
LIFE
. IT HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH THE
WORDS HE SPOKE BUT THE EXAMPLE
IT SET. WASHINGTON'S FAREWELL
ADDRESS ESTABLISHED FOR ALL TIME
THAT NO ONE HAD THE RIGHT TO THE
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENCY
, THAT IT BELONGED TO THE
PEOPLE. WHAT AN AMAZING LEGACY
AND WHAT AN AMAZING GIFT TO
FUTURE GENERATIONS. THE
KNOWLEDGE THAT THIS COUNTRY WILL
ALWAYS BE GREATER THAN ANY ONE
PERSON. THAT IS WHY MEMBERS OF
BOTH PARTIES TAKE TURNS READING
WASHINGTON'S ADDRESS ONCE A YEAR
IN FULL INTO THE RECORD TO
PLEDGE, AND ATTACHMENT TO THE
SELFLESSNESS AT THE CORE OF OUR
DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM. THIS TRIAL
WAS ABOUT THE FINAL ACTS OF A
PRESIDENT WHO REPRESENTS THE
ANTITHESIS OF OUR FIRST
PRESIDENT AND SOUGHT TO PLACE
ONE MAN BEFORE THE ENTIRE
COUNTRY, HIMSELF LET THE RECORD
SHOW THAT
BEFORE GOD, HISTORY, AND THE
SOLEMN OATH WE SHARE TO THE
CONSTITUTION, THERE IS ONLY ONE
CORRECT VERDICT IN THIS TRIAL,
GUILTY.
I PRAY THAT WHILE JUSTICE WAS
NOT DONE IN THIS TRIAL, IT WILL
BE CARRIED FORWARD BY THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE WHO ABOVE ANY OF
US IN THIS CHAMBER DETERMINE THE
DESTINY OF OUR GREAT NATION. I
YIELD THE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; MAJORITY LEADER CHUCK SCHUMER
SPEAKING ON THE FLOOR. HE BEGAN
BY SAYING 43 PEOPLE CHOSE
OVER AMERICA AND THAT IS HIS
CRITIQUE YOU CAN SEE MITCH
McCONNELL PREPARING TO MAKE
REMARKS AND WE WILL GO TO THAT
AS IT BEGINS PRACTICES LIVE
COVERAGE FROM THE WASHINGTON
POST
.
&gt;&gt; JANUARY 6 WAS A DISGRACE.
AMERICAN CITIZENS ATTACH THEIR
OWN GOVERNMENT TO USE TERRORISM
TO TRY TO STOP A SPECIFIC PIECE
OF DOMESTIC BUSINESS THEY DID
NOT LIKE HOOK FOUL AMERICANS
BEAT HER OWN POLICE. THEY
STORMED THE SENATE FLOOR. THEY
TRIED TO HUNT DOWN THE SPEAKER
OF THE HOUSE. THEY BUILT A
GALLOWS AND CHANTED ABOUT
MURDERING THE VICE PRESIDENT.
THEY DID THIS BECAUSE THEY HAD
BEEN FED FALSEHOODS BY THE MOST
POWERFUL MAN ON EARTH
, BECAUSE HE WAS ANGRY AND HAD
LOST AN ELECTION. FORMER
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S ACTIONS
PRECEDED THE RIOT  FOR A
DISGRACEFUL DERELICTION OF DUTY
. THE HOUSE ACCUSED THE FORMER
PRESIDENT OF, QUOTE, INCITEMENT.
THAT IS A SPECIFIC TERM FROM THE
CRIMINAL LAW.
THAT ASIDE FOR A MOMENT TO
REITERATE SOMETHING I SAID WEEKS
AGO. THERE IS NO QUESTION
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP IS
PRACTICALLY AND MORALLY
RESPONSIBLE FOR PROVOKING THE
EVENTS OF THE DAY. NO QUESTION
ABOUT IT. THE PEOPLE WHO STORMED
THIS BUILDING BELIEVES THEY WERE
ACTING ON THE WISHES AND
INSTRUCTIONS OF THEIR PRESIDENT.
AND HAVING THAT BELIEF WAS A
FORESEEABLE CONSEQUENCE
GROWING CRESCENDO
OF FALSE STATEMENTS, CONSPIRACY
THEORIES, AND RECKLESS
HYPERBOLE, WHICH THE DEFEATED
PRESIDENT KEPT SHOUTING INTO THE
LARGEST MEGAPHONE ON PLANET
EARTH. THE ISSUE IS NOT ONLY THE
INTEMPERATE LANGUAGE OF THE
PRESIDENT ON JANUARY 6
, AND IT IS NOT JUST HIS
ENDORSEMENT OF REMARKS IN WHICH
AN ASSOCIATE URGED, QUOTE, TRIAL
BY COMBAT, BUT IT WAS ALSO THE
ENTIRE MANUFACTURED ATMOSPHERE
OF LOOMING CATASTROPHE, THE
INCREASINGLY WILD MYTHS ABOUT A
REVERSAL LANDSLIDE ELECTION THAT
WAS SOMEHOW BEING STOLEN WITH
SOME SECRET
COUP BY ARONOW PRESIDENT
. I DEFENDED THE RIGHT OF THE
PRESIDENT TO BRING ANY
COMPLAINTS TO OUR LEGAL SYSTEM.
THE LEGAL SYSTEM SPOKE
. THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE SPOKE.
AS I STOOD UP AND SAID CLEARLY
AT THAT TIME THE ELECTION WAS
SETTLED AND IS OVER. THAT REALLY
OPENED UP A CHAPTER OF EVEN
WILDER AND MORE UNFOUNDED CLAIMS
. THE LEADER OF THE FREE WORLD
CANNOT SPEND WEEKS TENDERING
THAT SHADOWY FORCES ARE STILL IN
OUR COUNTRY AND THEN
ACT SURPRISED WHEN PEOPLE
BELIEVE HIM AND DO RECKLESS
THINGS. SADLY,
MANY MAKE OVERHEATED COMMENTS OR
USE METAPHORS. WE SAW THAT.
THINGS THAT LISTENERS MIGHT TAKE
LITERALLY, BUT THAT WAS
DIFFERENT. THAT WAS DIFFERENT
FROM WHAT WE SAW
. THIS WAS AN INTENSIFYING
CRESCENDO OF CONSPIRACY THEORIES
ORCHESTRATED BY AN OUTGOING
PRESIDENT WHO SEEMED DETERMINED
TO EITHER OVERTURN THE VOTER
DECISION OR ELSE TORCH
OUR INSTITUTIONS ON THE WAY OUT.
THE UNCONSCIONABLE BEHAVIOR DID
NOT END WHEN THE VIOLENCE BEGAN
. WHATEVER FORMER PRESIDENT
CLAIMS HE THOUGHT MIGHT HAVE
BEEN THAT DAY, WHATEVER REACTION
HE SAYS HE MEANT TO PRODUCE BY
THAT AFTERNOON, WE KNOW HE WAS
WATCHING THE SAME TELEVISION AS
THE REST OF US.
A MOM WAS ASSAULTING THE CAPITOL
IN HIS NAME . THESE CRIMINALS
WERE CARRYING HIS BANNERS,
HANGING HIS FLAGS, AND SCREAM IN
THEIR LOYALTY TO HIM. IT WAS
OBVIOUS THAT ONLY PRESIDENT
TRUMP COULD
AND THIS. AND HE WAS THE ONLY
ONE WHO COULD. FORMER AIDES
PUBLICLY BEGGED HIM TO DO SO
LOYAL ALLIES CALLED THE
ADMINISTRATION FRANTICALLY. THE
PRESIDENT DID NOT ACT SWIFTLY.
HE DID NOT DO HIS JOB. HE DID
NOT TAKE STEPS SO FEDERAL LAW
COULD BE FAITHFULLY EXECUTED AND
ORDER RESTORED. NO. INSTEAD
ACCORDING TO PUBLIC REPORTS, THE
WATCHED TELEVISION HAPPILY AS
THE CHAOS UNFOLDED
. HE KEPT PRESSING HIS SCHEME TO
OVERTURN THE ELECTION.
AFTER IT WAS CLEAR THAT VICE
PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE WAS IN
SERIOUS DANGER, EVEN AS THE MOM
WITH A TRUMP BANNER WAS BEATING
COPS AND BREACHING PARAMETERS,
THE PRESIDENT SENT A
TWEET ATTACKING HIS OWN VICE
PRESIDENT .
PREDICTABLY AND FORESEEABLY
UNDER THE CIRCUMSTANCES, MEMBERS
OF THE MOB
SEEMED TO INTERPRET THIS AS
FURTHER INSPIRATION TO
LAWLESSNESS AND VIOLENCE, NOT
SURPRISINGLY. LATER
EVEN WHEN THE PRESIDENT DID
HALFHEARTEDLY BEGIN CALLING FOR
PEACE , HE DID NOT CALL RIGHT
AWAY
FOR THE RIOT TO END. HE DID NOT
TELL THE MOB  TO DEPART UNTIL
EVEN LATER. AND EVEN THEN
WITH POLICE OFFICERS BLEEDING
AND BROKEN GLASS COVERING
CAPITOL FLOORS,  HE KEPT
REPEATING ELECTION LINES AND
PRAISING THE CRIMINALS. IN
RECENT WEEKS,
HIS ASSOCIATES HAVE TRIED TO USE
THE 74 MILLION AMERICANS WHO
VOTED TO REELECT HIM AS A KIND
OF HUMAN SHIELD AGAINST
CRITICISM USING THOSE WHO VOTED
FOR HIM IS A HUMAN SEAL
SHIELD AGAINST CRITICISM. ANYONE
WHO
DECRIES HIS BEHAVIOR IS ACCUSED
OF INSULTING MILLIONS OF VOTERS.
THAT IS
AN ABSURD DEFLECTION. 74 MILLION
AMERICANS DID NOT INVADE THE
CAPITOL . HUNDREDS
OF RIOTERS DID AND 74 MILLION
AMERICANS DID NOT
DO THIS. ONE PERSON DID. JUST
ONE
. I HAVE MADE MY VIEW OF THIS
EPISODE VERY PLAIN.
BUT OUR SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT
GAVE THE SENATE A SPECIFIC TASK.
THE CONSTITUTION GIVES US A
PARTICULAR ROLE. THIS BODY IS
NOT INVITED TO ACT AS THE
NATION'S OVERARCHING MORAL
TRIBUNAL
. WE ARE NOT FREE TO WORK
BACKWARD FROM WHETHER THE
ACCUSED PARTY MIGHT PERSONALLY
DESERVE SOME KIND OF PUNISHMENT.
JUST AS JOSEPH STORY OUR FIRST
GREAT CONSTITUTIONAL SCHOLAR
EXPLAINED TO HUNDRED YEARS AGO
, THE PROCESS OF IMPEACHMENT AND
CONVICTION IS A NARROW TOOL FOR
A NARROW PURPOSE.
STORY EXPLAINED THIS LIMITED
TOOL EXISTS TO, QUOTE, SECURITY
STATE AGAINST  GROSS OFFICIAL
MISDEMEANOR.
THAT IS TO PROTECT THE COUNTRY
FROM GOVERNMENT OFFICERS.
IF PRESIDENT TRUMP WERE STILL IN
OFFICE, I WOULD'VE CAREFULLY
CONSIDERED WHETHER THE HOUSE
MANAGERS PROVED THEIR SPECIFIC
CHARGE. BY THE STRICT CRIMINAL
STANDARD, THE SPEECH OF THE
PRESIDENT PROBABLY WILL NOT
INSIGHTFUL BUT HOWEVER
IN THE CONTEXT OF IMPEACHMENT
THE SENATE MIGHT HAVE
DECIDED THIS WAS ACCEPTABLE
SHORTHAND FOR THE RECKLESS
ACTIONS THAT
PRECEDED THE RIOT. IN THIS CASE
THE QUESTION IS MOOT BECAUSE
FORMER PRESIDENT TRUMP IS
CONSTITUTIONALLY NOT ELIGIBLE
FOR CONVICTION AND THIS IS A
CLOSE QUESTION NO DOUBT. DONALD
TRUMP WAS THE PRESIDENT WHEN THE
HOUSE VOTED, THOUGH NOT WHEN THE
HOUSE CHOSE TO DELIVER THE
PAPERS. BRILLIANT SCHOLARS ARGUE
BOTH SIDES OF THIS
JURISDICTIONAL QUESTION. THE
TEXT IS LEGITIMATELY AMBIGUOUS
. I RESPECT MY COLLEAGUES WHO
HAVE REACHED EITHER CONCLUSION.
BUT AFTER INTENSE REFLECTION, I
BELIEVE THE BEST CONSTITUTIONAL
READING SHOWS THAT ARTICLE 2
SECTION 4 EXHAUSTS
THE SET OF PERSONS WHO CAN
LEGITIMATELY BE IMPEACHED,
TRIED, OR CONVICTED. IT IS THE
PRESIDENT, THE VICE PRESIDENT,
AND CIVIL OFFICERS
. WE HAVE NO POWER TO CONVICT
AND DISQUALIFY A FORMER
OFFICEHOLDER WHO IS NOW A
PRIVATE CITIZEN. HERE IS ARTICLE
2 SECTION 4., QUOTE,, THE
PRESIDENT
, THE VICE PRESIDENT, AND ALL
CIVIL OFFICERS
OF THE UNITED STATES SHALL BE
REMOVED FROM OFFICE ON
IMPEACHMENT FOR AND CONVICTION
OF TREASON, BRIBERY, OR OTHER
HIGH CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS
. UP ONE BASICALLY AGREES THE
SECOND HALF OF THE SENTENCE
EXHAUSTS THE LEGITIMATE GROUNDS
FOR CONVICTION
. THE DEBATE AROUND THE
CONSTITUTION FRAMING MAKES IT
ABUNDANTLY CLEAR
. CONGRESS, CONVICT FOR REASONS
BESIDES THOSE
. IT THEREFORE FOLLOWS THAT THE
LIST OF PERSONS IN THE SAME
SENTENCE IS ALSO EXHAUSTED.
THERE IS NO REASON WHY ONE WOULD
LIST, ONE LIST WOULD BE
EXHAUSTIVE BUT THE OTHER WOULD
NOT. ARTICLE II, SECTION 4
MUST LIMIT BOTH WHITE
IMPEACHMENT AND CONVICTION CAN
OCCUR AND TO WHOM
. IF THIS PROVISION DOES NOT
LIMIT IMPEACHMENT AND CONVICTION
POWERS, THEN IT HAS NO LIMITS AT
ALL. THE HOUSE
HAS SOLE POWER OF IMPEACHMENT,
AND THE SENATE SO POWER TO TRY
ALL IMPEACHMENTS
WOULD CREATE AN UNLIMITED
CIRCULAR LOGIC AND POWER IN
CONGRESS TO BAN ANY PRIVATE
CITIZEN FROM FEDERAL OFFICE.
THAT IS AN INCREDIBLE CLAIM. BUT
IT IS THE ARGUMENT OF THE
HOUSE MANAGERS. ONCE AT THE
HOUSE AND THE SENATE HAVE
ABSOLUTE UNQUALIFIED
JURISDICTIONAL POWER. THAT WAS
VERY HONEST
BECAUSE THERE IS NO LIMITING
PRINCIPLE IN THE CONSTITUTIONAL
TEXT THAT WOULD EMPOWER THE
SENATE TO CONVICT FORMER
OFFICERS THAT WERE NOT ALSO LET
THEM CONVICT AND DISQUALIFY ANY
PRIVATE CITIZEN. AN ABSURD AND
RESULTS TO WHICH NO ONE
SUBSCRIBES. ARTICLE II, SECTION
4  MUST HAVE FOR US. IT TELLS US
THE PRESIDENT
, THE VICE PRESIDENT, AND CIVIL
OFFICERS MAY BE IMPEACHED AND
CONVICTED. DONALD TRUMP IS NO
LONGER THE PRESIDENT
. LIKEWISE, THE PROVISIONS STATE
OFFICERS SUBJECT TO IMPEACHMENT
AND CONVICTION SHALL BE REMOVED
FROM OFFICE IF CONVICTED.
AS JUSTICE
STORY EXPLAINED, THE SENATE UPON
CONVICTION IS BOUND  IN ALL
CASES TO ENTER A JUDGMENT OF
REMOVAL FROM OFFICE. REMOVAL IS
MANDATORY UPON CONVICTION
. CLEARLY HE EXPLAINED THAT THE
MANDATORY SENTENCE CANNOT BE
APPLIED TO SOMEONE WHO HAS LEFT
OFFICE. THE ENTIRE PROCESS
REVOLVES AROUND REMOVAL
. IF REMOVAL BECOMES IMPOSSIBLE,
CONVICTION BECOMES CONSENSUAL
. IT DOES SEEM COUNTERINTUITIVE
AND OFFICEHOLDER CAN ELUDE
SENATE CONVICTION BY RESIGNATION
OR EXPIRATION OF TERMS
, AN ARGUMENT WE HEARD MADE BY
THE MANAGERS. BUT THIS
UNDERSCORES IMPEACHMENT WAS
NEVER MEANT TO BE THE FINAL FORM
FOR AMERICAN JUSTICE.
IMPEACHMENT, CONVICTION, AND
REMOVAL
ARE A SPECIFIC INTERGOVERNMENTAL
SAFETY VALVE
. IT IS NOT THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM OR INDIVIDUAL
ACCOUNTABILITY THE PARAMOUNT
GOAL. INDEED JUSTICE
STORY SPECIFICALLY REMINDED THAT
WHILE FORMER OFFICIALS  WERE NOT
ELIGIBLE FOR IMPEACHMENT OR
CONVICTION, THEY WERE, AND THIS
IS EXTREMELY IMPORTANT, STILL
LIABLE TO BE TRIED AND PUNISHED
IN THE ORDINARY TRIBUNALS OF
JUSTICE. PUT ANOTHER WAY, IN THE
LANGUAGE OF TODAY, PRESIDENT
TRUMP IS STILL LIABLE FOR
EVERYTHING HE DID WHILE HE WAS
IN OFFICE AS AN ORDINARY
CITIZEN.
UNLESS THE STATUTES OF
LIMITATIONS IS WHEN COME HE IS
STILL LIABLE FOR EVERYTHING HE
DID WHILE HE WAS IN OFFICE. HE
DOES NOT GET AWAY WITH ANYTHING
YET. WE HAVE A CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM IN THIS COUNTRY WE HAVE
CIVIL LITIGATION AND FORMER
PRESIDENTS ARE NOT IMMUNE FROM
BEING ACCOUNTABLE BY EITHER ONE.
I BELIEVE THE SENATE WAS RIGHT
NOT TO GRAB POWER THE
CONSTITUTION DOES NOT GIVE US,
AND THE SENATE WAS RIGHT NOT TO
ENTERTAIN SOME PROCESS TO TRY TO
OUT RUN
THE LOSS OF JURISDICTION. IT
TOOK BOTH SIDES MORE THAN A WEEK
JUST TO PRODUCE THE PRETRIAL
BRIEFS. SPEAKER PELOSI'S
OWN DECISIONS CONSIDER WHAT
PRESIDENT BIDEN CONFIRMED. A
SENATE PRODUCT BEFORE
INAUGURATION DAY WAS NEVER
POSSIBLE. THIS HAS BEEN A
DISPIRITING TIME
, BUT THE SENATE HAS DONE OUR
DUTY. THE FRAMERS
HELD UP AGAIN
. ON JANUARY 6 BE RETURNED TO
OUR POST AND CERTIFIED THE
ELECTION WE WERE NOT INTIMIDATED
WE FINISHED THE JOB
. SINCE THEN,
WE RESISTED THE CLAMOR TO DEFY
OUR OWN GUARDRAILS IN HOT
PURSUIT OF A PARTICULAR OUTCOME
. WE REFUSED TO CONTINUE A CYCLE
OF RECKLESSNESS BY STRAINING OUR
OWN CONSTITUTIONAL BOUNDARIES IN
RESPONSE
. THE SENATE DECISION TODAY
DOES NOT CONDONE ANYTHING THAT
HAPPENED ON OR BEFORE THAT
TERRIBLE DAY. IT SIMPLY SHOWS
THAT SENATORS
FORMER PRESIDENT FAILED TO DO.
WE PUT OUR CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY
FIRST.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATOR FROM MARYLAND.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU . THEY TAKE THIS
TIME TO EXPLAIN WHY I VOTED TO
CONVICT THE FORMER PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR BEN CARDIN
SPEAKS. LET'S RECAP WHAT WE JUST
SAW. MITCH McCONNELL CONDEMNING
DONALD TRUMP AN INCREDIBLY HARSH
LANGUAGE
, BLAMING HIM FOR THE ATTACK OF
JANUARY 6 IMPLYING THAT DONALD
TRUMP IS NOT FREE FROM CRIMINAL
PROSECUTION FOR WHAT HE HAS
DONE. MITCH McCONNELL VOTED
ACQUITTAL, SO HE IS GIVING THIS
DEVASTATING SPEECH THAT HOLDS NO
ACTUAL WEIGHT OR REPERCUSSIONS
BECAUSE HE VOTED ACQUITTAL
CITING CONSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS.
THE REASON WHY PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP TRIAL TO NOT GO FORWARD
WHILE HE WAS STILL IN OFFICE IS
BECAUSE MITCH McCONNELL DID NOT
LET IT HAPPEN.
WE HAVE RECEIVED A STATEMENT
FROM THE FORMER PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP REACTING TO HIS ACQUITTAL.
HE THANKED HIS LAWYERS AND
CALLED THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL THE
GREATEST
WITCH-HUNT IN THE HISTORY OF OUR
COUNTRY. HE DID NOT MENTION THE
EVENTS JANUARY 6 AND SAID HIS
MOVEMENT TO MAKE AMERICA GREAT
HAS ONLY JUST BEGUN THAT IS THE
STATEMENT FROM FORMER PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP LET'S GO TO
NATIONAL REPORTER
JOYCE KOH TO FIND OUT MORE.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: THIS IS SIMILAR TO
WHAT WE HEARD THE FIRST TIME
AROUND DURING HIS FIRST
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL TALKING ABOUT
THIS AS A WITCH-HUNT BUT HE ALSO
SAID IT IS A SAD COMMENTARY THAT
THE POLITICAL PARTY IN AMERICA
IS GIVEN A FREE PASS
TO TRANSFORM JUSTICE INTO A TOOL
OF POLITICAL VENGEANCE AND
SUPPRESS ALL PEOPLE AND
VIEWPOINTS WITH WHOM THEY
DISAGREE
. PRESIDENT TRUMP IN THE
STATEMENT REALLY STANDING BY HIS
ACTIONS BUT THIS IS SOMETHING
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
TALKED ABOUT DURING THE 10 HOURS
OF ARGUMENTS
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY. THEY
REALLY BROUGHT UP THIS SCENARIO.
WHAT IF HE GETS ACQUITTED AND
REELECTED AND REMAINS A PART OF
A VERY POWERFUL LEADER IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY AND THIS
HAPPENS AGAIN?
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGER JAMIE
RASKIN SAID TO HIS COLLEAGUES
DONALD TRUMP WILL STOP INCITING
VIOLENCE, DO YOU THINK
VIOLENCE TO GET HIS WAY? WITH
YOU BUT THE LIVES OF YOUR FAMILY
ON THAT FOR THE FUTURE OF THE
DEMOCRACY? HE SAID PRESIDENT
TRUMP DECLARED HIS CONDUCT
TOTALLY APPROPRIATE, SO IF HE
GETS BACK INTO OFFICE AND IT
HAPPENS AGAIN WE WILL HAVE NO
ONE TO BLAME BUT OURSELVES.
THESE ARE VERY STRONG WORDS FROM
REPRESENTATIVE JAMIE RASKIN . WE
SEE EXACTLY THAT IN THIS
STATEMENT AS FAR AS TAKING BLAME
FOR ANYTHING OR EVEN MENTIONING
THE INSURRECTION AND VIOLENCE
THAT HAPPENED TODAY CALLING THIS
A WITCH-HUNT REMAINED THOSE THAT
HAVE COME AFTER HIM ON THIS
,  THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS, FOR EVEN TAKING THIS
AS A CASE. PRESIDENT TRUMP
DEFENDING HIMSELF AFTER BEING
ACQUITTED TODAY IN THE SENATE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
,  JOYCE KOH. SENATOR BILL
CASSIDY WHO VOTED TO CONVICT
DONALD TRUMP HAS ALSO ISSUED A
STATEMENT WRITING THIS . OUR
CONSTITUTION AND COUNTRY IS MORE
IMPORTANT THAN ANY ONE PERSON
. I VOTED TO CONVICT PRESIDENT
TRUMP BECAUSE HE IS GUILTY AND
THIS IS SENATOR CASSIDY.  LET'S
GO TO YOU, JAMES HOHMANN . THE
SPEECH BY MITCH McCONNELL COULD
HAVE GONE DOWN IN HISTORY AS ONE
OF THE MOST POTENT AND GAME
CHANGING SPEECHES FROM THAT
CHAMBER IN MODERN HISTORY, BUT
IT WILL NOT
BECAUSE HE DID NOT VOTE TO
CONVICT THE MAN WHO WAS THE
LEADER OF HIS PARTY WHO STILL IN
MANY WAYS IS THE LEADER OF THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: ABSOLUTELY
. IT IS BECAUSE HE DOES NOT WANT
TO LOSE HIS LEADERSHIP JOB
TRYING TO PROTECT HIS JOB AND HE
DID NOT WANT TO HAVE AN
INSURRECTION OF HIS OWN
POLITICALLY ON HIS HANDS. HE IS
VERY PROUD OF THE FACT HE IS THE
LONGEST-SERVING REPUBLICAN
LEADER EVER. IT IS ABSOLUTELY
THE CASE OF MITCH McCONNELL
WANTED TRUMP TO BE CONVICTED, HE
COULD HAVE COME OUT FOR IT. HE
IS A VERY STRONG LEADER IN THE
REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE. THIS IS
HIM TRYING TO HAVE HIS CAKE AND
EAT IT TOO. WHAT HE WANTS PEOPLE
TO TAKE AWAY FROM THIS PAGE IS
THAT HE CARES DEEPLY ABOUT THE
INSTITUTION THAT HE TALKED ABOUT
HIS CONSTITUTIONAL
INTERPRETATION CLICK THAT IS
MERELY A PROCEDURAL OFFERING
LOOKING FOR A LOOPHOLE AND
LOOKING FOR AN EXCUSE TO BE ABLE
TO VOTE NO. HE SAID AS MUCH
BECAUSE IT WAS SO CLEAR ABOUT IN
HIS VIEW THE WRONGNESS
OF TRUMP'S CONDUCT BEFORE AND ON
JANUARY 6.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA COLVIN ON CAPITOL HILL
. LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
REPUBLICANS WHO WILL JUSTIFY
THEIR VOTE,  RHONDA.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: THEY WILL PROBABLY
SOUND A LOT LIKE WHAT MITCH
McCONNELL JUST SAID
. THAT THEY JUST DID NOT FEEL
THAT THEY HAD THE AUTHORITY TO
CONVICT A PRESIDENT WHO IS NO
LONGER IN OFFICE BUT WE HEARD
THAT BEFORE THE TRIAL EVEN BEGAN
. IT IS SOMETHING HOUSE
REPUBLICANS CITED AS A REASON,
AND I JUST HAVE TO COMMENT ON
MITCH McCONNELL STATEMENT AND
REMIND PEOPLE OF THE TIMELINE
THAT WHEN THE HOUSE PASSED THE
ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT, THE
SENATE WAS OUT
. SINCE MITCH McCONNELL RUNS THE
CALENDAR AND THE SCHEDULE, HE
SAID HE WOULD NOT BRING THEM
BACK
FOR ANY SPECIAL REASON. THEY
REMAINED OUT UNTIL THE DAY
BEFORE JOE BIDEN WAS
INAUGURATED. HE PRETTY MUCH
ALONE CONTROLLED WHEN THE SENATE
COULD HAVE TAKEN UP THE ARTICLE
OF IMPEACHMENT AND ACCEPTED THE
ARTICLE. IT IS SO INTERESTING TO
HEAR HIM USE THE STATEMENT FOR
HIS THAT THEY CANNOT HAVE DONE
AND IMPEACHMENT TRIAL SO QUICKLY
ON THE 19th BECAUSE THEY DID NOT
GET THE ARTICLE IN TIME AND THAT
WILL NOT HAVE BEEN THE CASE IF
THE SENATE HAD NOT BEEN IN
RECESS AND HE IS THE ONE THAT
MADE THAT DECISION. OTHERS COULD
USE THAT ARGUMENT
AND THEIR CONSTITUENTS COULD
BELIEVE THAT AS A REASON WHY
THEY DID NOT WANT TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH CONVICTION. FOR
MITCH McCONNELL TO SAY THAT WHEN
HE WAS THE ONE IN CONGRESS WHO
COULD HAVE CHANGED THE SCHEDULE,
IT IS SO INTERESTING BUT WE WILL
SEE HOW THIS AFFECTS REPUBLICAN
SENATORS WHEN THEY GO BACK HOME
AND IF WE ARE HEARING STORIES
ABOUT ANY OF THEM HAVING TO
RECEIVE ANY BACKLASH
FROM THEIR DECISION AND THE
SEVEN WHO DECIDED TO VOTE TO
CONVICT
THAT THIS IS GOING TO BE A
DEVELOPING STORY ABOUT THE
FUTURE OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY.
THE HOUSE HAS HAD ITS ISSUES
WITH MARJORIE TAYLOR GREENE
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT IF THEY
SHOULD TAKE HER OFF OF
COMMITTEES BUT NOW WITH THE
SENATE REPUBLICANS, THEY NOW
HAVE SEVEN AMONG THEM WHO
BELIEVE THE ONE TIME
STANDARDBEARER OF THE PARTY
SHOULD BE CONVICTED FOR THE
INSURRECTION.
&gt;&gt; AND RHONDA, CONGRESSMAN
GREEN WAS ATTACKING
CONGRESSWOMAN HERRERA BEUTLER
TODAY. AS WE KNOW, HER STATEMENT
SAID THAT
THE TOP REPUBLICAN IN THE HOUSE
KEVIN McCARTHY TOLD HER ABOUT A
CONVERSATION THAT HE HAD WITH
DONALD TRUMP THAT WAS IN TERMS
OF HIS ALLEGED KNOWLEDGE OF THE
SITUATION ON THE GROUND. HIS
LAWYER MICHAEL VAN DER VEEN SAID
HIS CLIENT DID NOTHING WRONG
AND HE SAID THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS HAD NO EVIDENCE. LET'S
LISTEN
.
&gt;&gt; NO MATTER HOW MUCH HORRIFYING
FOOTAGE WE SEE OF THE CONDUCT OF
THE RIOTERS AND HOW MUCH EMOTION
HAS BEEN  INJECTED INTO THIS
TRIAL
, IT DOES NOT CHANGE THE FACT
MR. TRUMP IS INNOCENT OF THE
CHARGES AGAINST HIM, DESPITE ALL
OF THE VIDEO PLAYED
AT NO POINT IN THE PRESENTATION
TO DO HERE AT THE HOUSE MANAGERS
PLAY A SINGLE EXAMPLE OF MR.
TRUMP URGING ANYONE TO ENGAGE IN
VIOLENCE OF ANY KIND. AT NO
POINT DID YOU HEAR ANYTHING THAT
COULD POSSIBLY BE CONSTRUED AS
MR. TRUMP SANCTIONING
INSURRECTION.
&gt;&gt; SEVEN REPUBLICANS DO NOT
AGREE TO THAT.
RHONDA COLVIN, ANOTHER DISAGREES
AND THAT IS MITCH McCONNELL  WE
JUST HIRED HIM TO SAY THE EXACT
OPPOSITE OF THIS. CAN YOU GIVE
US THE LANES REPUBLICANS ARE IN
RIGHT NOW? THERE IS SHADES OF
WAR THEY FILE IN THE SPECTRUM IF
PRESIDENT TRUMP DID SOMETHING
WRONG OR NOT.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: YOU HAVE A LOT OF
THEM
TALKING ABOUT THE
CONSTITUTIONALITY ARGUMENT THAT
THE PROCEEDING THIS WEEK WAS NOT
EVEN CONSTITUTIONAL SO THEY DO
NOT HAVE A CHOICE AND HAD TO GO
WITH HOW THEY FEEL AND THEY
BELIEVE IT SHOULD ONLY APPLY TO
SOMEONE CURRENTLY IN OFFICE
. THAT IS WHAT THEY WERE
ATTACKING ON THE FIRST DAY OF
DELIBERATIONS THIS WEEK WHEN
THEY VOTED IF THIS WAS
CONSTITUTIONAL OR NOT
YOU'RE GETTING PAST THAT THEY
DID HAVE JURISDICTION ON TUESDAY
TO GO FORWARD WITH THIS PROCESS
AND IMPEACHMENT MANAGER JAMIE
RASKIN  ASKED THEM TO ABANDON
THAT IDEA. YOU HAVE THAT LANE
NEVER REPUBLICANS WHO BELIEVE
THAT YOU ALSO HAVE MODERATE
REPUBLICANS WHO WE WERE WATCHING
ALL OF THIS TIME WHO BELIEVE YOU
CANNOT OVERLOOK THE ACTIONS OF
JANUARY 6
. THEY WERE MAINLY FOCUSED ON
THE TIMELINE WHERE TRUMP WAS
CHECKED OUT AND AIDES FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE SAID HE WAS NOT
RESPONDING AND THAT HE LEFT VICE
PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE IN DANGER.
THEY FOCUSED ON WHEN DID HE KNOW
THAT THE VICE PRESIDENT WAS IN
TROUBLE
? THIS IS SOMETHING THAT HAS
BEEN CITED IN SOME OF THE
STATEMENTS I'VE BEEN READING.
THAT ROMNEY SAID HE WAS VERY
TROUBLED ABOUT THE MIKE PENCE
ASPECT AND THE FACT PRESIDENT
TRUMP DID NOT COME TO ASSIST HIM
OR ASK ABOUT HIM OR SEND THE
NATIONAL GUARD BUT THAT WAS
SOMETHING THAT REALLY TROUBLED
SENATOR ROMNEY
IN THE LAST FEW DAYS. THAT IS
WHY THEY MADE THAT DECISION
. I THINK AS WE GO FORWARD
THROUGHOUT THIS DAY WE WILL SEE
SOME MORE STATEMENTS FROM
REPUBLICANS WHY THEY VOTED THE
WAY THEY DID. THIS IS A
SITUATIONAL REPUBLICANS ARE
GOING TO HAVE TO ANSWER ONE WAY
OR THE OTHER WHY THEY VOTED THE
WAY THEY DID. A LOT OF PEOPLE
ARE THINKING ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT AS THIS EMBOLDENS THOSE WHO
ARE PART OF THE MOB WHO NOW SEE
THE PERSON WHO THEY BELIEVE THEY
CAME HERE TO DO THIS FOR
ACQUITTED. THAT IS ANOTHER
CONCERN BECAUSE MANY OF THESE
MEMBERS ARE STILL GRAPPLING WITH
THE EMOTION OF SUCH A CLOSE CALL
JANUARY 6.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO HANNAH
JEWELL
.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: JANUARY 6 IS NOT
OVER FOR THOSE  WHO STORMED
THE THAT DAY. THIS GROUP OF 200
WHO HAS BEEN CHARGED SO FAR
INCLUDES PROFESSIONALS AND A
BLUE COLLARED WORKERS  AND YOUNG
MEN AND MIDDLE-AGED WOMEN WITH A
HISTORY OF FINANCIAL TROUBLE
LIKE TAX PROBLEMS AND
BANKRUPTCIES AND 15% OF WHOM
WERE MILITARY VETERANS OF SOME
KIND. THIS ALL INCLUDED MEMBERS
OF THE PROUD BOYS. THEY WERE
MOSTLY WHITE BUT NOT ENTIRELY.
THEY ALL BELIEVE THAT THE
ELECTION HAD BEEN STOLEN
. SOME ARE MOUNTING AS PART OF
THE DEFENSE THE FACT THEY FELT
THEY WERE FOLLOWING THE ORDERS
OF THE PRESIDENT. SOME
FEEL BETRAYED AS IT BECOMES
CLEAR HOW MUCH TROUBLE THEY ARE
IN
AS HE IS NOT. IN ONE CASE A
TEENAGER WHO WAS CHARGED WITH
SHOVING AN OFFICER, HIS PARENTS
HAD BROUGHT HIM AND ARE NOW
ASKING
AUTHORITIES TO DROP THE CHARGES.
THEY SAID THEY ARE EMBARRASSED
FOR TAKING THE SENDER AND
BELIEVING TOO MUCH IN THE IDEA
OF A FRAUDULENT ELECTION AND
BELIEVING THE THEN PRESIDENT WE
ALSO HAVE A NUMBER OF MEMBERS OF
THE PROUD BOYS IN PARTICULAR
AND HE TOLD THEM TO STAND BACK
AND STAND BY FOR NOW FACING
CHARGES
. MEANWHILE, THE FBI STILL
OFFERS A REWARD OF $100,000
FOR INFORMATION LEADING TO THE
ARREST OF WHOEVER WAS
RESPONSIBLE FOR PLACING THE PIPE
BOMBS IN WASHINGTON, D.C. THE
NIGHT BEFORE THE INSURGENCY. IN
HIS CLOSING ARGUMENT, MICHAEL
VAN DER VEEN  SAID THAT THE
RIOTERS WERE ALREADY AT THE
CAPITOL BEFORE THE END OF THE
SPEECH AND SOME WERE BUT MANY
WERE NOT  AND WENT OVER AT THE
CONCLUSION . SOMETHING ELSE THAT
CAME OUT TO ME WAS WHEN MANAGER
DEAN SAID THAT INSURRECTION IS
ARE STILL LISTENING TO WE WILL
CONTINUE TO SEE WHAT THEY HAVE
LEARNED TODAY AND WHETHER OR NOT
THE JUSTICE SYSTEM CAN ACHIEVE A
LEVEL OF ACCOUNTABILITY THAT THE
POLITICAL SYSTEM MAY NOT HAVE AS
WELL.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
,  HANNAH JEWELL. JAMES, AS SHE
SPEAKS ABOUT WHAT IS FACING
THOSE  CHARGED IN CRIMINAL COURT
AND WE SAW IMAGES
OF THE BRUTALITY AND ACTED ON
POLICE OFFICERS AND ON THE
PROPERTY OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE,
MITCH McCONNELL HAD A REALLY
INTERESTING STATEMENT THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS STILL LIABLE
FOR EVERYTHING HE DID IN OFFICE.
HE DIDN'T GET AWAY WITH ANYTHING
YET. WHAT DO YOU READ INTO THAT
STATEMENT AND WORK THIS GO FROM
HERE?
&gt;&gt; Reporter: HIS LEGAL PROBLEMS
ARE JUST BEGINNING . HE FACES AN
EXTRAORDINARY AMOUNT OF LEGAL
SCRUTINY SEPARATE AND APART FROM
JANUARY 6. ESPECIALLY IN NEW
YORK WHERE HIS FINANCES ARE
BEING LOOKED INTO. ON JANUARY 6
IN HIS EFFORT TO SPREAD IT OUT
ABOUT THE ELECTION, HE IS
UNDER INVESTIGATION BY THE
DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE IN
ATLANTA. THEY ARE LOOKING INTO
HIS PHONE CALL WITH BRAD
RAFFENSPERGER, THE GEORGIA
SECRETARY OF STATE. HE TRIED TO
ASK FOR ENOUGH VOTES TO BE FOUND
SO THAT HE COULD BE DECLARED THE
WINNER
IN GEORGIA. THERE'S ALSO REPORTS
HE MET OTHER PHONE CALLS TO
PEOPLE WHO WORKED WITH BRAD
RAFFENSPERGER AND TWO OTHER
GEORGIA ELECTION OFFICIALS .
THERE IS CALLS THAT TRUMP MADE
TO ELECTION OFFICIALS THAT WE
KNOW ABOUT IN MICHIGAN AND
PENNSYLVANIA AS WELL.
INTERESTINGLY, HE HAS GOTTEN
AWAY WITH SOMETHING WITH THIS
ACQUITTAL BECAUSE HIS LEGAL TEAM
CAN ARGUE IN CRIMINAL COURT THAT
HE IS BEEN ACQUITTED
AND IT IS ADMISSIBLE THAT HE IS
BEEN ACQUITTED BY THE SENATE.
&gt;&gt; AND HE CAN RUN FOR
REELECTION.
HAD THEY VOTED TO CONVICT HIM A
SIMPLE MAJORITY WOULD HAVE BEEN
ALL NEEDED. SENATOR SUSAN
COLLINS OF MAINE IS ON THE FLOOR
AND IT IS A REMINDER THAT SHE IS
ONE OF THE REPUBLICANS WHO
JOINED TO CONVICT PRESIDENT
TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; TO UNDERMINE PUBLIC
CONFIDENCE IN THE PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION, UNLESS HE WANTED.
EARLY ON THE
4 AS THE BALLOTS CONTINUED TO BE
COUNTED, PRESIDENT TRUMP CLAIMED
VICTORY AND ASSERTED DEMOCRATS
WERE TRYING TO STEAL THE
ELECTION
. ON NOVEMBER 8, THE DAY AFTER
SEVERAL MEDIA OUTLETS HAD
DECLARED JOE BIDEN THE APPARENT
WINNER BASED ON
RESULTS, PRESIDENT TRUMP TWEETED
THIS WAS A STOLEN ELECTION.
WITHOUT HIS POST ELECTION
CAMPAIGN, TO CHANGE THE OUTCOME
THEY BEGAN. OVER THE ENSUING
DAYS AND MONTHS, THE PRESIDENT
DISTORTED
THE RESULTS OF THE ELECTION,
CONTINUING TO CLAIM THAT HE HAD
ONE CHECK WHILE COURT AFTER
COURT THREW OUT HIS LAWSUITS,
AND STATES CONTINUED TO CERTIFY
THEIR RESULTS. PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
FALSEHOODS CONVINCED A LARGE
NUMBER OF AMERICANS
THAT HE HAD WON AND THAT THEY
WERE BEING CHEATED. THE
PRESIDENT ALSO EMBARKED ON AN
INCREDIBLE EFFORT TO PRESSURE
STATE ELECTION OFFICIALS TO
CHANGE THEIR RESULTS IN THE
STATES. THE MOST EGREGIOUS
EXAMPLE OCCURRED IN JANUARY WITH
THIS PHONE CALL WHEN PRESIDENT
TRUMP COULD BE HEARD ALTERNATING
BETWEEN LOBBYING AND
INTIMIDATING AND THREATENING THE
ELECTION OFFICIALS IN
GEORGIA. I JUST WANT TO FIND
11,000 VOTES HE STATED ,
SEEKING THE EXACT NUMBER OF
VOTES NEEDED TO CHANGE THE
OUTCOME IN THE STATE.
DESPITE THE PRESIDENT'S PLEAS
AND THREATS,  THE GEORGIA
OFFICIALS REFUSED  TO YIELD TO
THE PRESSURE, AS DID STATE
OFFICIALS IN OTHER STATES. IN
DECEMBER, PRESIDENT TRUMP'S POST
ELECTION CAMPAIGN BECAME FOCUSED
ON JANUARY 6, THE DAY CONGRESS
WAS SCHEDULED TO COUNT THE
ELECTORAL COLLEGE VOTES.
ALTHOUGH THIS COUNTY AND IS A
CEREMONIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
ACT
, IT IS NEVERTHELESS THE
CONSTITUTIONALLY MANDATED FINAL
STEP IN THE ELECTORAL PROCESS,
AND IT MUST OCCUR BEFORE A NEW
PRESIDENT CAN BE INAUGURATED. ON
DECEMBER 19, PRESIDENT TRUMP
TWEETED
HIS SUPPORTERS AND SAID A BIG
PROTEST IN WASHINGTON, D.C.
JANUARY 6. BE THERE. IN RESPONSE
, SOME OF HIS CAMPAIGN
SUPPORTERS CHANGE THE DATE FOR
THE PROTEST RALLY AND THEY HAD
ORIGINALLY HAD THE SCHEDULED TO
OCCUR
AFTER THE INAUGURATION TO HAPPEN
INSTEAD ON JANUARY 6.
HAVING FAILED TO PERSUADE THE
COURTS AND STATE ELECTION
OFFICIALS, PRESIDENT TRUMP NEXT
BEGAN TO PRESSURE VICE PRESIDENT
MIKE PENCE TO USE HIS ROLE UNDER
THE 12th AMENDMENT TO OVERTURN
THE ELECTION
. THE PRESIDENT MET WITH VICE
PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE ON JANUARY
6, AND THEN INCREASED THE
PRESSURE BY TWEETING, IF THE
VICE PRESIDENT COMES THROUGH FOR
US, WE WILL WIN THE PRESIDENCY.
THAT IS WHAT IT SAID. VICE
PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE REFUSED TO
YIELD. ISSUED A PUBLIC LETTER ON
JANUARY 6 MAKING CLEAR THAT HIS
GOALS TO SUPPORT AND DEFEND THE
CONSTITUTION WOULD PREVENT HIM
FROM DECIDING UNILATERALLY
WHICH ELECTORAL VOTES SHOULD BE
COUNTED AND WHICH SHOULD NOT.
DURING HIS SPEECH ON JANUARY 6,
PRESIDENT TRUMP KEPT UP
DRUMBEAT OF PRESSURE
ON VICE PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE. IN
FRONT OF A LARGE, AGITATED CROWD
, HE URGED THE VICE PRESIDENT TO
STAND UP
FOR THE GOOD OF OUR
CONSTITUTION. I HOPE MIKE HAS
THE COURAGE TO DO WHAT HE HAS TO
DO, PRESIDENT TRUMP CONCLUDED.
MR. PRESIDENT, RATHER THAN
FACILITATING THE PEACEFUL
TRANSFER OF POWER, PRESIDENT
TRUMP WAS TELLING
VICE PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE TO
IGNORE THE CONSTITUTION AND TO
REFUSE TO COUNT THE CERTIFIED
VOTES. HE WAS ALSO FURTHER
AGITATING THE CROWD, DIRECTING
THEM TO MARCH TO THE CAPITOL .
IN THIS SITUATION, CONTEXT WAS
EVERYTHING.
INTO A PILE OF DRY LEAVES
IS VERY DIFFERENT FROM TOSSING
IT INTO A POOL OF WATER. ON
JANUARY 6 THE ATMOSPHERE AMONG
THE CROWD OUTSIDE
HOUSE WAS COMBUSTIBLE, LARGELY
THE RESULT
OF AN ILL WIND BLOWING FROM
WASHINGTON FOR THE PAST MONTHS.
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD STOKED
DISCONTENT WITH A STEADY BARRAGE
OF FALSE CLAIMS THAT THE
ELECTION HAD BEEN STOLEN FROM
HIM. THE
ALLEGEDLY RESPONSIBLE OFFICIALS
WITH INTEGRATED AND RIDICULED BY
THE PRESIDENT, WITH THE
PREDICTABLE RESULT THAT HIS
SUPPORTERS VIEWED ANY OFFICIAL
THAT THEY PERCEIVED TO BE AN
OBSTACLE TO PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
REELECTION AS AN ENEMY OF THE
CAUSE. THAT SET THE STAGE
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MORE THAN
200 YEARS.
NEARLY 30 MINUTES AFTER THE
CAPITOL  FIRST CAME UNDER ATTACK
, MEMBERS OF CONGRESS, LAW
ENFORCEMENT, AND EVERYONE ELSE
HERE IN THE CAPITOL  WAITED IN
VAIN
FOR THE PRESIDENT TO CONDEMN THE
VIOLENCE AND TELL HIS MISGUIDED
SUPPORTERS TO LEAVE THE CAPITOL
.
RATHER THAN DEMAND AN END TO THE
VIOLENCE, PRESIDENT TRUMP
EXPRESSED HIS FRUSTRATION ONCE
AGAIN THAT THE VICE PRESIDENT
HAD NOT STOPPED THE VOTE
CERTIFICATION AS HE HAD URGED
. SHORTLY AFTER THE VICE
PRESIDENT WAS TAKEN AWAY
FROM THIS CHAMBER TO AVOID THE
MOB
CHANTING, HANG MIKE PENCE,
PRESIDENT TRUMP TWEETED MIKE
PENCE DO NOT HAVE THE COURAGE TO
DO WHAT SHOULD HAVE BEEN DONE
. INSTEAD OF PREVENTING A
DANGEROUS SITUATION, PRESIDENT
TRUMP CREATED ONE. RATHER THAN
DEFEND THE CONSTITUTIONAL
TRANSFER OF POWER
, HE INCITED AN INSURRECTION
WITH THE PURPOSE OF PREVENTING
THAT TRANSFER OF POWER FROM
INCURRING.
WHETHER BY DESIGN OR BY VIRTUE
OF A RECKLESS DISREGARD FOR THE
CONSEQUENCES OF HIS ACTION,
PRESIDENT TRUMP SUBORDINATING
THE INTEREST OF THE COUNTRY TO
HIS OWN SELFLESS INTEREST
SELFISH INTEREST BEARS
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE INVASION
OF THE CAPITOL . MR. PRESIDENT,
THIS IMPEACHMENT TRIAL IS NOT
ABOUT ANY SINGLE WORD UTTERED BY
PRESIDENT TRUMP ON JANUARY 6,
2021. IT
ABOUT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S FAILURE
TO OBEY THE OATH HE SWORE
JANUARY 20, 2017. HIS ACTIONS
INTERFERE WITH THE PEACEFUL
TRANSITION OF POWER, THE
HOMEWORK OF OUR CONSTITUTION AND
OUR AMERICAN DEMOCRACY WHERE AN
ABUSE OF POWER AND CONSTITUTE
GROUNDS FOR CONVICTION.
TWO ARGUMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE
AGAINST CONVECTION THAT
DESERVED, AND. THE FIRST IS THAT
THIS WAS A
SNAP IMPEACHMENT, THAT THE HOUSE
FAILED TO HOLD HEARINGS, CONDUCT
AN INVESTIGATION
, AND INTERVIEW WITNESSES. THAT
IS TRUE. WITHOUT A DOUBT, THE
HOUSE SHOULD HAVE BEEN MORE
THOROUGH AND COMPILED A MORE
COMPLETE RECORD. NEVER THE LESS,
THE RECORD IS CLEAR THAT THE
PRESIDENT PRESIDENT TRUMP ABUSED
HIS POWER, VIOLATED HIS OATH TO
UPHOLD THE CONSTITUTION
.
&gt;&gt; WE'RE LEAVING SUSAN COLLINS
TO GO TO THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS WHO ARE ADDRESSING THE
PRESS AND THIS IS JAMIE RASKIN
THAT WE WILL HEAR WHAT THEY HAVE
TO SAY. IT IS JUST FASCINATING
TO HEAR A SUSAN COLLINS
REASONING WAS FOR HER GUILTY
THOSE. LET'S GO NOW TO THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LIKE TO START BY
THANKING THE AMERICAN PEOPLE FOR
ENGAGING SO SERIOUSLY WITH THIS
PROCESS. I WANT TO THINK MEMBERS
OF THE SENATE, THE HOUSE, AND
THE TERRIFIC MEMBERS OF THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGER TIM.
TRUMP STORMED OUR HOUSE WITH THE
MOB HE INCITED AND WE DEFENDED
OUR HOUSE. HE VIOLATED OUR
CONSTITUTION, AND WE DEFENDED
THE CONSTITUTION. THEY TRIED TO
TRUST OUR DEMOCRACY AND WE
REVIVED IT AND PROTECTED IT
. THIS WAS THE MOST BIPARTISAN
PRESIDENTIAL IMPEACHMENT IN THE
HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
WINDOWS THAT IMPEACHMENT FOR
REASONS THAT WE COULD EXPLORE
SOME OTHER TIME BECOME PARTISAN,
BUT THIS WAS THE MOST BIPARTISAN
IMPEACHMENT EVENT IN THE HISTORY
OF THE COUNTRY. IT WAS ALSO THE
LARGEST SENATE VOTE FOR A
PRESIDENTIAL IMPEACHMENT, 57-43
AND OF COURSE
THE VOTE TO IMPEACH 232-197 IN
THE HOUSE THAT WE HAVE A CLEAR
MAJORITY OF MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
THAT THE PRESIDENT ACTUALLY
INCITED VIOLENT INSURRECTION
AGAINST THE UNION AND AGAINST
THE CONGRESS. SENATOR MITCH
McCONNELL JUST WENT TO THE FLOOR
ESSENTIALLY TO SAY THAT WE MADE
OUR CASE ON THE FACT THAT HE
BELIEVED DONALD TRUMP WAS
PRACTICALLY AND MORALLY
RESPONSIBLE FOR INCITING THE
EVENTS OF JANUARY 6
DESCRIBED IT AS A DISGRACEFUL
DERELICTION OF DUTY, THE
DESERTION OF HIS OFFICE, AND
MADE A SERIES
OF STATEMENTS THAT WE DO NOT
EVEN MAKE SAYING THAT THIS WAS
NOT OVER YET BY A LONGSHOT, AND
THAT THERE WAS THE PATH OF
CRIMINAL PROSECUTION FOR THE
FORMER PRESIDENT WHO IS
DISGRACED AND TWICE IMPEACHED.
THE BOTTOM LINE IS WE CONVINCED
A BIG MAJORITY IN THE SENATE OF
OUR CASE. I AM VERY PROUD OF THE
HARD WORK OF THESE MANAGERS WHO
WORK THROUGH THE NIGHT OVER
SEVERAL WEEKS TO MAKE THIS CASE
TO THE SENATE AND TO THE UNION.
I JUST WANT TO SAY ONE WORD
ABOUT WOMEN SAYS THAT WE WERE
ABLE TO GET TREATED WITNESSES
THAT WE WERE ABLE TO GET
AND GET A STIPULATION TO THE
STATEMENT OF CONGRESSWOMAN JAIME
HERRERA BEUTLER AND GET IT INTO
EVIDENCE TODAY  BY ASKING FOR
HER AS A WITNESS. IF YOU LISTEN
TO MITCH McCONNELL AND THE
REPUBLICANS WHO ARE NOW
EXPLAINING WHY THEY VOTED
NOT TO CONVICT, ALL OF THEM ARE
HINGING IT ON A LEGAL ARGUMENT
THAT COULD NEVER BE OVERCOME BY
ANY NUMBER OF WITNESSES THAT WE
COULD'VE HAD
5000 WITNESSES AND MITCH
McCONNELL WOULD BE MAKING THE
SAME SPEECH BECAUSE HE SAYS THE
SENATE NEVER HAS JURISDICTION
OVER A FORMER RESIDENT THERE FOR
REASONS I DO NOT NEED TO
BELABOR, WE REJECT THAT
COMPLETELY. IT IS AT ODDS WITH
OUR HISTORY. THE TEXT OF THE
CONSTITUTION AND THE ORIGINAL
INTENT AND UNDERSTANDING AND THE
SENATE'S OWN PRECEDENTS AND SO
ON. NO NUMBER OF WITNESSES
DEMONSTRATING
DONALD TRUMP CONTINUED TO INCITE
THE INSURRECTION IS EVEN AFTER
THE INVASION OF THE CAPITAL
WOULD CONVINCE THEM. THEY WERE
HINGING IT ON A MATTER OF LAW
, WHICH WE THOUGHT WE HAD
SETTLED ON TUESDAY WHEN THE
SENATE ELECTED TO EXERCISE
JURISDICTION AND REJECT THAT
ARGUMENT
. IT IS WHAT IT IS. MITCH
McCONNELL CLEARLY FEELS DONALD
TRUMP REMAINS A HUGE PROBLEM FOR
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY, EVEN IF HE
HAS BEEN DISGRACED
. THAT IS NOT MY JURISDICTION
AND I DO NOT HAVE ANYTHING TO
SAY ABOUT THAT. THEY WILL HAVE
TO DEAL WITH THE POLITICAL
DYNAMICS WITHIN THEIR OWN PARTY.
WE DID GET
HE IS A FORMER PRESIDENT NOW, SO
THAT IS GOOD NEWS. HE IS NOT
ASSERTING THAT SOMEHOW HE IS
STILL PRESIDENT AND THEY
RECOGNIZE AT LEAST IN A DE FACTO
SENSE THE LEGITIMACY OF THE
SELECTION, WHICH IS THAT
PRESIDENT BIDEN WON
HELP WITH THAT, I WILL CLOSE MY
REMARKS. QUESTIONS ARE OPEN FOR
ANY OF US AND I WILL SHARE THE
PODIUM WITH MY COLLEAGUES.
&gt;&gt; YOU POSTED ON THE RAND PAUL
MOTION. SO WHAT IS SAID ABOUT
NOT PUSHING HARDER AGAINST HER
WITNESSES
TO SHED MORE LIGHT ON THE
THINKING YOU COULDN'T HAVE GROWN
THE NUMBER OF REPUBLICAN
DEFECTORS? BUCKET THAT I TRUST
THAT. DOES ANYONE ELSE WANT TO
ADDRESS?
&gt;&gt; WE HEARD FROM THE MINORITY
LEADER MITCH McCONNELL THAT WE
HAVE PROVEN THE CASE
. HE SAID SPECIFICALLY THE HOUSE
MANAGERS HAVE PROVEN THE FACT OF
THE CASE. BEFORE WE STARTED
YESTERDAY, WE KNEW WE RESTED
WITH OVERWHELMING EVIDENCE.
THESE WERE ALSO WITNESSES TO THE
CRIME. THEY KNEW WHAT WAS
HAPPENING, AND THEN WE FOUND
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FROM
CONGRESSWOMAN HERRERA BEUTLER
WHICH YESTERDAY EVENING WE
DECIDED THAT WE WERE GOING TO GO
AFTER AND WE GOT THAT
INFORMATION. TO FURTHER AMPLIFY
WHAT WE HAD ALREADY PROVEN IN
COURT. THERE IS NO OTHER
ADDITIONAL WITNESSES THAT WERE
FRIENDLY TO US THAT ONE IS ON
THE SCREEN. THE BODY CAMERAS OF
THE CAPITOL POLICE OFFICERS  AND
HOW MUCH WERE WITHOUT A GIVEN
THEN
ACTUAL SCENE THE DAY OF THE
INSURRECTION? INDIVIDUALS WE
WOULD LIKE TO HAVE CALLED LIKE
THE PRESIDENT WHO INVITED IS IN
FACT THE DEFENDANT AND DOES NOT
HAVE TO TESTIFY. OTHERS WHO MAY
HAVE BEEN THERE WITH THE
PRESIDENT WERE NOT A FROM THE
WITNESS TO US AND WOULD HAVE
REQUIRED A SUBPOENA AND THEY ARE
STILL LITIGATING AGAIN
IMPEACHMENT ONE YEAR LATER AND
SO WE BELIEVE THIS HAS SHOWN
THAT THIS PRESIDENT IS A
DISGRACE TO OUR COUNTRY. MITCH
McCONNELL
HIMSELF SAID THIS. THEY HAVE
DECIDED TO HANG THEIR HAT ON
JURISDICTIONAL GROUNDS NOT BASED
IN EVIDENCE OR BASED ON THE
FACTS AND TO BE JUDGED FOR THAT
WE HAVE DONE OUR DUTY TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
&gt;&gt; LET ME INTRODUCE SPEAKER
PELOSI AND I WILL COME TO YOU
NEXT.
&gt;&gt; IT HAD NOT BEEN MY ATTENTION
TO COME TO THIS PRESENT
AVAILABILITY, HOWEVER TEMPTING
IT WOULD BE TO SING THE PRAISES
OF OUR HOUSE MANAGERS ON BEHALF
NOT ONLY OF THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES BUT ON BEHALF OF
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. I HAVE TO
SAY ON BEHALF OF MY
GRANDCHILDREN TO HELP FROM EACH
AND EVERY ONE OF YOU. WE CANNOT
BE PROUDER OF YOUR PATRIOTIC
PRESENTATIONS, THE CLARITY WITH
WHICH HE PRESENTED, AND THE
INSPIRATION THAT YOU HAVE BEEN
TO SO MANY PEOPLE.
THANK YOU FOR THAT. IT REMINDS
ME WHEN WE RECRUIT CANDIDATES TO
RUN FOR OFFICE , WE ALWAYS SAY I
COULD BE THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNIVERSITY OR THE HEAD OF MY
HOSPITAL DEPARTMENT OR THIS OR
THAT. YOU HAVE TO THINK ABOUT
WHETHER OR NOT YOU WANT TO RUN
FOR CONGRESS. WE ALWAYS SAY WE
DO NOT WANT ANYBODY WITHOUT
OPTIONS IF THAT IS WHAT WE ARE
LOOKING TO YOU TO RUN, BECAUSE
YOU HAVE OPTIONS
. THAT SHOULD NOT BE A REASON
FOR YOU NOT TO RUN. WHAT WE SAW
TODAY WAS A GROUP OF REPUBLICANS
WHO APPARENTLY HAVE NO OPTIONS
BECAUSE THEY WERE AFRAID TO
DEFEND THEIR JOB TO PROTECT THE
INSTITUTION IN WHICH THEY SERVE.
IMAGINE THAT IT WOULD BE
VANDALIZED AND SO MANY BAD WAYS
THAT I WILL NOT EVEN GO INTO
HERE AND THAT THEY WERE NOT
RESPECT THEIR ATTITUDES THAT'S
THE PRESIDENT OF THE SENATE,
MIKE PENCE,
HANG MIKE PENCE WAS THE CHANT
AND THEY JUST DISMISS THAT. WHY?
MAYBE BECAUSE THEY CANNOT GET
ANOTHER JOB. WHAT IS SO
IMPORTANT ABOUT ANY ONE OF US?
WHAT IS SO IMPORTANT ABOUT THE
POLITICAL SURVIVAL OF ANYONE OF
US THAT IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN
EVER CONSTITUTION THAT WE TAKE
AN OATH TO PROTECT AND DEFEND?
BUT WHY I CAME OVER WAS BECAUSE
I LISTENED TO MITCH McCONNELL.
MITCH McCONNELL WHO WHEN THIS
DISTINGUISHED GROUP OF HOUSE
MANAGERS WERE GATHERED
ON JANUARY 15 TO DELIVER THE
ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT CANNOT
BE RECEIVED BECAUSE MITCH
McCONNELL HAD SHUT DOWN THE
SENATE AND WAS GOING TO KEEP IT
SHUT DOWN UNTIL THE INAUGURATION
FOR HIM TO MAKE THIS INDICTMENT
AGAINST THE PRESIDENT AND THEN
SAY BUT I CANNOT VOTE FOR IT
BECAUSE IT IS AFTER THE FACT THE
FACT THAT HE ESTABLISHED
THAT IT CANNOT BE DELIVERED
BEFORE THE INTEGRATION. WHEN YOU
THINK ABOUT JANUARY 6 BETWEEN
JANUARY 6 AND JANUARY 20, YOU
ARE ONLY TALKING ABOUT TWO WEEKS
.
SO THE BIG LIE THAT WE TALKED
ABOUT, STOP THE STEAL
, WAS THE MOMENTUM FOR GETTING
THESE PEOPLE ON THE SIXTH. THEY
HONESTLY BELIEVE FOR WHATEVER
REASON,
MAYBE TOO MUCH SOCIAL MEDIA, WHY
THEY WERE THINKING THAT WAS TRUE
THE ELECTION WAS NOT LEGITIMATE.
SO A WEEK
IN THE HOUSE AND THANK YOU TO
THOSE OF YOU  WHO PARTICIPATED
RIGHT AWAY WITH JAMIE RASKIN,
TED LIEU, AND
DAVID CICILLINE. THEY HAD IT
READY TO GO AND THEN TWO DAYS
LATER  READY WITH THE CASE TO
TAKE TO THE SENATE. WE CANNOT
RECEIVE IT. AND THEN
BY THE LAW IT SHOWS YOU RECEIVED
IN THE NEXT DAY START THE TRIAL.
SO FOR MITCH McCONNELL
, WHO CREATED THE SITUATION
WHERE IT CANNOT HAVE BEEN HIRED
BEFORE THE 20th, OR EVEN BEGUN
BEFORE THE 20th IN THE SENATE,
TO SAY ALL THE THINGS THAT HE
SAID ABOUT DONALD TRUMP AND HOW
HORRIBLE HE WAS AND IS, AND THEN
SAY,
BUT THE TIME THAT THE HOUSE
CHOSE TO BRING OVER. WE DID NOT
CHOOSE
. YOU CHOSE NOT TO RECEIVE IT I
THINK THAT IS REALLY IMPORTANT.
IT DOESN'T MATTER.
YOU CAN HAVE THE CASE AFTER THE
PERSON IS OUT OF OFFICE. THE
SENATE RULES AND THAT WAY ON
THIS
SO YOU DO NOT MATTER ACCEPTED
WAS NOT THE REASON THAT HE VOTED
THE WAY THAT HE DID
. IT WAS THE EXCUSE THAT HE
USED. THAT IS WHY I THINK IT IS
IMPORTANT BECAUSE THAT WAS A
VERY IMPORTANT SPEECH. I THOUGHT
THE SPEECH OF CHUCK SCHUMER WAS
REMARKABLE. I THINK HE WAS
INSPIRED BY ALL OF YOU BECAUSE
YOU RAISED THE LEVEL ALL OF ALL
OF THIS TO SUCH A PLACE OF
PATRIOTISM AND KNOWLEDGE OF OUR
HISTORY AND WHAT WE OWE OUR
CHILDREN. WE ALWAYS SAY ONGOING
DIVISION OF OUR FOUNDERS
, WORTHY OF THE SACRIFICE OF OUR
MEN AND WOMEN IN UNIFORM, AND
RESPECTING THE ASPIRATIONS OF
OUR CHILDREN. THEY DID ALL OF
THAT. AS THE DISTINGUISHED
MANAGER SAID EARLIER ON THIS
PRESIDENTIAL WEEKEND, HER SENSE
OF PATRIOTISM IS STIRRED
, AND WE ARE CALLED UPON IN A
STRONGER WAY. I WANT TO THANK
THEM. THANK YOU  VERY MUCH
MADELEINE DEAN,  STACEY
PLASKETT, TED LIEU, JOE NEGUSE ,
JOAQUIN CASTRO .
WE JUST COULDN'T BE MORE PROUD
AND I'VE BEEN HEARING FROM MY
GRANDCHILDREN WHO ARE VERY SAD
THAT JUSTICE WAS NOT DONE. BY 15
VOTES THE SENATE VOTED TO
CONVICT
A GOOD BIPARTISAN STATEMENT
ABOUT WHAT HAS HAPPENED. IT
WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN ACCOMPLISHED
WITHOUT THAT BRILLIANT
PRESENTATION. THANK YOU FOR THAT
AND I YIELDED THE FLOOR BACK TO
ALL OF YOU AS I LEAVE .
&gt;&gt; I WAS GOING TO GO NEXT TO
SCOTT.
&gt;&gt; IS GOING TO ASK THE SPEAKER
IF SHE HAD A COMMENT. THE
PRESIDENT SO WAS LIABLE
CRIMINALLY FOR EVERYTHING HE DID
IN OFFICE PRODUCING NOW THAT THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT OR THE STATE
ATTORNEY GENERAL SHOULD PURSUE?
&gt;&gt; HE EVEN HEDGED ON THAT. DO
YOU REMEMBER WHEN HE TALKED
ABOUT INCITEMENT? HE WAS HEDGING
ALL OVER THE PLACE
. I DON'T KNOW IF IT WAS FOR
DONORS OR WHAT, BUT WHATEVER IT
WAS
, IT WAS A VERY DISINGENUOUS
SPEECH. I SAY THAT REGRETTABLY
BECAUSE I ALWAYS WANT TO BE ABLE
TO WORK WITH THE LEADERSHIP OF
THE OTHER PARTY. I THINK OUR
COUNTRY NEEDS A STRONG
REPUBLICAN PARTY. IT IS VERY
IMPORTANT FOR HIM TO HAVE TRIED
TO OF HAD IT EVERY WHICH WAY.
WILL BE GOING FORWARD TO MAKE
SURE THAT THIS NEVER HAPPENS
AGAIN IN TERMS OF INVESTIGATING
AND EVALUATING WHAT CAUSED THIS
IN TERMS OF ITS MOTIVATION BUT
ALSO
IN TERMS OF THE SECURITY THAT WE
HAVE TO HAVE AS WE GO FORTH,
RECOGNIZING HOW INFLAMING EVEN
SOME OF OUR ELECTED OFFICIALS
CAN BE. I DEFER TO ALL OF THESE
DISTINGUISHED LAWYERS ABOUT THIS
.
&gt;&gt; IS CENSURE AN OPTION
?
&gt;&gt; IT WAS EVERYBODY OFF THE
HOOK. THESE COWARDLY SENATORS
WHO CANNOT FACE
PRESIDENT DID AND WHAT WAS AT
STAKE FOR OUR COUNTRY ARE NOT
GOING TO HAVE A CHANCE TO GET A
SLAP ON THE WRIST. WE DO NOT
CENSURE PEOPLE FOR INCITING
INSURRECTION  THAT KILLS PEOPLE
IN THE CAPITOL.
&gt;&gt; YES?
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A
NOTE FROM A DEPOSITION POSSIBLY
LEAVING TWO OTHER DEPOSITIONS.
DID YOU TRY AND REACH OUT TO HER
AT ALL SEPARATELY?
HOUSE GOING TO GET INVOLVED IN
IT?
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW WHAT,
WE TRIED THIS CASE AS
AGGRESSIVELY AS WE COULD ON THE
LAW AND ON THE FACTS.
WE GOT EXACTLY WHAT WE WANTED
WHICH WAS ENTERING INTO THE
EVIDENTIARY RECORD OF THE
STATEMENT BY ARE CALLING
CONGRESSWOMAN HERRERA BEUTLER
. I WAS ABLE TO READ THAT BEFORE
THE ENTIRE COUNTRY, AND IT
BECAME A PART OF THE CASE. WE
COULD'VE HAD 500 WITNESSES
, AND IT WOULD NOT HAVE OVERCOME
THE KIND OF ARGUMENTS BEING MADE
WHO WERE HANGING THEIR HATS
THAT WAS NOT CONSTITUTIONAL TO
TRY A FORMER PRESIDENT OR THE
FIRST AMENDMENT GAVE HIM A RIGHT
TO INCITE INSURRECTION AGAINST
THE UNION.
WE THINK WE OVERWHELMINGLY PROVE
THEIR CASE AND THE STATEMENT OF
MITCH McCONNELL SHOW THEY KNEW
WE DID AND ALL THAT MIGHT'VE
HAPPENED
IF WE HAD BARGAINED FOR 10
WITNESSES ON OUR SIDE AND 10
WITNESSES ON THEIR SIDE, THE
FIRST PERSON THEY SAID THEY
WANTED TO BRING UP AND
CROSS-EXAMINE IS NANCY PELOSI
THEY WOULD HAVE TURNED THIS INTO
A CIRCUIT AND WE CONDUCTED WITH
THE QUORUM. YOU CAN SEE THE
CONDUCT OF THE LAWYERS ON THE
OTHER SIDE AND YOU KNOW WHAT THE
TRACK RECORD IS OF DONALD TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; WHY DID SHE NOT RAISE HER
COMMENTS SOONER?
&gt;&gt; THE FIRST TIME THAT I SAW THE
STATEMENT WAS YESTERDAY. THAT
STATEMENT WAS RELEASED
YESTERDAY.
WHAT IS INTERESTING IS THAT THE
PREMISES THAT SOMEHOW WE FAILED
TO PROVE THE FACTS OF THE CASE
AND IN THE EYES OF THE COUNTRY
WE OVERWHELMINGLY APPROVED THE
FACTS OF THE CASE. SENATOR
McCONNELL JUST CONCEDED THAT
THAT THAT WASN'T THE ISSUE
FOR YOU HAVE TO TALK TO THE 43
SENATORS WHO SAY NO, THE FACTS
WOULD HAVE MADE ANY DIFFERENCE
TO THEM BECAUSE THEY DO NOT
THINK HE WAS SUBJECT TO THE
JURISDICTION OF THE SENATE.
FORGIVE ME FOR REACTING STRONGLY
TO THAT, BUT IT SEEMS TO ME TO
BE A BIZARRE CONCLUSION
TO SAY THAT SOMEHOW IF WE HAD
ONE MORE WITNESS MITCH McCONNELL
WOULD'VE COME OVER TO OUR SIDE.
JUST LISTEN TO HIS WORDS.
&gt;&gt; DID THE WHITE HOUSE TELL YOU
THEY WANTED IT AS SHORT AS
POSSIBLE? BUT I NEVER SPOKE TO
ANYONE FROM THE WHITE HOUSE. AND
I MADE THE CALL. SO IF YOU WANT
TO BLAME SOMEBODY.
&gt;&gt;&gt; WE ARE TRYING TO UNDERSTAND
IN TERMS OF WITNESSES WHO EXPECT
WHEN YOU GET IN A SITUATION LIKE
THIS, IF WE HAD NEEDED ANY
WITNESSES TO MAKE THEIR CASE HE
WOULD'VE INSISTED ON
WITNESSES IN A SIX WEEK TRIAL
BUT WE DO NOT. WE OVERWHELMINGLY
PROVED OUR CASE. SENATOR
McCONNELL JUST CONCEDED THAT.
ALL OF THEM SAY YOU WANT CHECK
ON THE FACTS.
&gt;&gt; YOU SAID SOMETHING. WE HAVE
TWO THING TO DO. WE HAD TO HAVE
A MOTION
FOR WITNESSES, WHICH WE DID
WHICH WAS AFTER THE PROSECUTION
AND THE DEFENSE MADE THE CASE WE
MADE A MOTION TO ALLOW FOR
WITNESSES, AND THEN AFTER THAT
WE REQUESTED ONE WITNESS. THE
REPUBLICAN COUNSEL  SAID HE WAS
GOING TO BRING 100 WITNESSES. WE
GOT STATEMENT OF CONGRESSWOMAN
JAIME HERRERA BEUTLER . THE
DEFENSE GOT NOTHING. I THINK
THAT WHAT YOU ARE DOING IS
MAKING A LOT AND DISMISSING THE
INCREDIBLE EVIDENCE OF HAVOC, MY
HIM, AND WHAT THIS PRESIDENT HAD
DONE OVER A PERIOD OF MONTHS TO
BRING DESTRUCTION TO OUR
DEMOCRACY
BY TALKING ABOUT IF YOU ARE TWO
OR THREE MORE WITNESSES WHICH
WAS GOING TO HAPPEN.
&gt;&gt; REMEMBER THERE IS A REASON
THE REQUEST FOR WITNESSES COMES
AT THE CONCLUSION OF THE CASE
THAT WE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO
SEE THE FORMER PRESIDENTS
COUNSEL  AND DECIDE IF WE NEEDED
ADDITIONAL WITNESSES
THAT WE HAD DOZENS OF WITNESSES
AND IT WAS ONLY LEFT THAT WE
LEARNED ABOUT THIS NEW
INFORMATION THAT WE GOT THE BEST
OF BOTH WORDS
. WE GOT THE TESTIMONY IN THE
RECORD BEFORE THE JURY WITHOUT
ANY RISK ASSOCIATED WITH IT.
THIS IS A CONGRESSWOMAN WHO
REPEATS A TELEPHONE CALL BETWEEN
KEVIN McCARTHY AND THE FORMER
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
IN WHICH KEVIN McCARTHY IS
PLEADING FOR HELP AND THE
PRESIDENT FIRST TRIES TO BLAME
INTO THE AND HE SAYS THESE ARE
YOUR SUPPORTERS AND WE ARE IN
DANGER AND HE SAYS MAYBE THEY
CARE MORE ABOUT THE ELECTION
THAN YOU DO THINK THAT CAME
THROUGH THE STATEMENT READ BY
MR. RASKIN
BUT WE GOT THE EVIDENCE IN THAT
WE WANTED TO PRESENT AND THAT
WAS A VICTORY.
&gt;&gt; THE DEFENDANT PRESIDENT TRUMP
WAS LEFT OFF ON A TECHNICALITY,
AND THAT IS ESSENTIALLY WHAT YOU
HEARD MITCH McCONNELL SAY THAT
THEY LET HIM OFF ON A PROCEDURAL
ISSUE, WHICH WAS BECAUSE OF THE
CONSTITUTIONALITY OF THE MATTER.
THE COLONEL PROCEED TO THE
SUBSTANCE DOCTRINAL
INTERPRETATION
BOTH ON THE LIBERAL SIDE AND THE
CONSERVATIVE SIDE DISAGREES WITH
THAT ASSESSMENT, BUT THEY LET
HIM OFF ON A TECHNICALITY . YOU
ALSO HEARD MITCH McCONNELL SAY
THAT WE PROVED OUR CASE THAT
SUBSTANTIVELY DONALD TRUMP IS
GUILTY  OF INCITING INSURRECTION
AND I KNOW FOR ALL OF US IT HAS
BEEN AN HONOR TO WORK ON THIS
CASE, AND EVEN THOUGH WE DID NOT
GET 67 VOTES, THIS HAS BEEN THE
MOST BIPARTISAN VOTE FOR
IMPEACHMENT EVER AND WE KNOW
THAT WE SPOKE THE TRUTH ON THE
SENATE FLOOR. THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE BY AND LARGE HAVE AGREED
WITH US. ONE FINAL REMARK ON ALL
OF THIS COMMIT THIS EPISODE FROM
JANUARY 6 HAS BEEN VERY TAXING
ON THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
USHERING IN A NEW ERA, THANKS TO
DONALD TRUMP, OF POLITICAL
VIOLENCE. MOST OF ALL, MY
REACTION TO THE DECISION OF A
MAJORITY OF SENATORS NOT TO
CONVICT DONALD TRUMP DESPITE THE
EVIDENCE IS NOT ONLY SADNESS BUT
ALSO APPREHENSION FOR THE NATION
BECAUSE AS I SAID DURING MY
REMARKS, THE MAIN ARGUMENT OF
THE DEFENSE COUNSEL IS THAT
THERE IS NOTHING WRONG  WITH
WHAT DONALD TRUMP DID AND HE
COULD DO IT ALL OVER AGAIN. AS A
NATION WE JUST HAVE TO HOPE THAT
THAT IS NOT THE CASE
.
&gt;&gt; I THINK WE WILL CLOSE IT UP.
I JUST WANT TO REMIND EVERYBODY
THAT THIS WAS THE MOST
BIPARTISAN IMPEACHMENT IN THE
HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES AND
THE LARGEST VOTE IN THE U.S.
SENATE EVER
TO CONVICT A PRESIDENT WHO HAS
BEEN IMPEACHED. IT WAS THE MOST
BIPARTISAN CONVICTION VOTE IN
THE SENATE THAT WE HAVE EVER
SEEN IN THE CASE OF A
PRESIDENTIAL IMPEACHMENT. THERE
IS ONE OTHER NUMBER TO LOOK OUT
FOR IF YOU LISTEN CAREFULLY
PICKED THERE IS 57 SENATORS WHO
VOTED TO CONVICT ON THE FACTS
AND THE LAW. ADD TO THAT THE
NUMBER OF SENATORS WHO SAY
THEY BELIEVE DONALD TRUMP WAS
FACTUALLY GUILTY BUT THAT THE
SENATE DID NOT HAVE JURISDICTION
OR THERE WAS SOME OTHER
CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUE TO TAKE THE
ONES WHO SAY WE DO NOT THINK
THAT WE COULD CONVICT HIM
BECAUSE OF THIS EXCEPTION. HE
WAS ABLE TO GET AWAY WITH IT AT
THE END OF HIS TERM
. IF 20 OF THEM SAY THAT, THAT
MEANS YOU HAVE A SUPER MAJORITY
WHO SAY THE PRESIDENT ACTUALLY
IS GUILTY OF THESE CRIMES, WHICH
WE THINK WE HAVE DEMONSTRATED TO
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt; THAT WAS A POSTTRIAL PRESS
CONFERENCE WITH THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, WHO ARE
PROUD OF THE PROSECUTION DESPITE
LOSING THE VOTE.
JAMIE RASKIN SAID DONALD TRUMP
TRASHED OUR CONSTITUTION AND
THEY DEFENDED IT. HE MENTIONED
MITCH McCONNELL'S COMMENTS ON
THE SENATE FLOOR AS A COMPLEMENT
TO THE CASE . HOUSE SPEAKER
NANCY PELOSI SHOWED UP AND
CALLED REPUBLICANS IN THE SENATE
WHO VOTED ACQUITTAL COWARDLY,
TAKING AIM AT MITCH McCONNELL
WHO REFUSED TO CALL THE SENATE
BACK WHEN TRUMP WAS STILL IN
OFFICE. TO CATCH YOU UP ON THIS
BREAKING NEWS DAY, THE SENATE
HAS VOTED TO ACQUIT 57-43 THE
FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES
DONALD TRUMP IN HIS SECOND
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL. SEVEN
REPUBLICANS JOINED THE
DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS IN A VOTE TO
CONVICT TRUMP ON THE CHARGE OF
INSURRECTION
PRACTICES THE MOST BIPARTISAN
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL IN HISTORY BUT
EVEN THAT VOTE COUNT WAS NOT
ENOUGH TO MEET THE THRESHOLD
NEEDED FOR CONVICTION. THE
PARTICULAR BONE SPEAKER PELOSI
WAS PICKING AT IS THAT IT WAS UP
TO MITCH McCONNELL. HE WAS THE
ONE WHO DECIDED
NOT TO ALLOW THIS ARTICLE TO GO
FORWARD TO THE SENATE. HIS
REASON FOR NOT VOTING TO CONVICT
WAS ON CONSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS
LET'S PLAY A PART OF THE SPEECH
THAT THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
ARE REFERRING TO.
&gt;&gt; PRESIDENT TRUMP IS STILL
LIABLE FOR EVERYTHING HE DID
WHILE IN OFFICE. AS AN ORDINARY
CITIZEN
. UNLESS THE STATUTE OF
LIMITATIONS IS RUN, HE IS STILL
LIABLE FOR EVERYTHING HE DID
WHAT HE WAS IN OFFICE. YOU DO
NOT GET AWAY WITH ANYTHING YET.
WE HAVE A CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEM IN THIS COUNTRY. WE HAVE
CIVIL LITIGATION. FORMER
PRESIDENTS ARE NOT IMMUNE FROM
BEING ACCOUNTABLE BY EITHER ONE
.
&gt;&gt; THAT WAS LATER MITCH
McCONNELL ON THE SENATE FLOOR
AFTER THE SENATE VOTED TO ACQUIT
DONALD TRUMP. LET'S BRING
JAMES HOHMANN INTO THE
CONVERSATION AND YOU CAN
UNDERSTAND THE FRUSTRATION OF
SPEAKER PELOSI  BECAUSE IT IS
LIKE HAVING YOUR CAKE AND EAT IT
TOO. YOU HEAR CONDEMNING THE
FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES THAT WE HAVE SEEN THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGER SPEAK
ON THE TAIL OF MITCH McCONNELL
CONDEMNING THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES.
&gt;&gt; IT DOES MAKE IT REALLY HARD
THAT THE SPEECH OF MITCH
McCONNELL COMBINED WITH
STATEMENTS FROM ROB PORTMAN WHO
VOTED NOT GUILTY OR PUT OUT A
STATEMENT TO SAY WHAT HE DID WAS
INEXCUSABLE BUT I AM OPPOSING
IMPEACHMENT, IT REALLY DOES MEAN
EVEN THOUGH HE WILL BE ELIGIBLE
AGAIN IN 2024 AND WILL CONTINUE
TO BE THE DOMINANT FORCE IN
REPUBLICAN POLITICS, IT IS NOT
ANYTHING LIKE EXONERATION. IT
FEELS DIFFERENT THAN ONE YEAR
AGO WHEN REPUBLICANS WERE
DEFENDING HIS CONDUCT
AND YOU SAW THAT AT THE END OF
THE PRESS CONFERENCE WHEN JAMIE
RASKIN SAID  HAD
PEOPLE LIKE PORTMAN AND OTHERS
AND YOU HAVE A SUPER MAJORITY OF
THE CONGRESS WHO SAY WHAT TRUMP
DID WAS
DERELICT IN HIS DUTY AS
PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL GO TO RHONDA COLVIN
. THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGER  JAMIE
RASKIN  DEFENDED THE DECISION
WHEN IT SAYS
. LET'S TALK THROUGH HOW THAT
PLAYED OUT TODAY AND WHAT HE HAD
TO SAY IF THAT WOULD'VE MADE A
DIFFERENCE.
&gt;&gt; Reporter:
IS TALKING ABOUT EARLIER TODAY
WHEN THERE WAS THE UNANTICIPATED
TWIST WHERE THE SENATE DECIDED
THAT THEY WOULD ENTERTAIN THE
IDEA OF BRINGING IN WITNESSES
BASED ON MR. RASKIN SAYING HE
WANTED TO CALL A REPRESENTATIVE
CONGRESSWOMAN JAIME HERRERA
BEUTLER WHO HAD INFORMATION
ABOUT A CALL  FOR KEVIN McCARTY
WAS TALKING WITH TRUMP AND I WAS
AT THE HEART OF A LOT OF THE
MODERATE REPUBLICAN CONCERNS
ABOUT THE EVENTS OF JANUARY 6.
THEY WERE WORRIED AND CONCERNED
THE DEFENSE TEAM DID NOT REALLY
TELL THEM WHAT THE PRESIDENT WAS
DOING WHEN HE UNDERSTOOD THAT
MIKE PENCE WAS IN DANGER. THAT
IS TO KICKOFF THE DAY. IT ENDED
UP
WHERE THE TWO SIDES WITH THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS AND THE
DEFENSE TEAM AGREED THAT THE
STATEMENT BY THAT REPRESENTATIVE
COULD BE ENTERED AS EVIDENCE,
BUT SHE WOULD NOT BE BROUGHT IN
TO SPEAK OR DO A ZOOM CALL.
WHAT THE PRESS CONFERENCE THAT
WE JUST SAW, IT WAS A CHANCE FOR
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS EVEN
THOUGH THEY WERE NOT VICTORIOUS
AND GETTING THE SUPER MAJORITY,
THEY KEPT POINTING OUT HOW
BIPARTISAN THIS WAS AND THEY
FELT THEY HAD ENOUGH BY OFFERING
THE EVIDENCE FROM CONGRESSWOMAN
HERRERA BEUTLER TO UNDERSCORE
THE ARGUMENT IN THE TRIAL ,
WHICH IS TRUMP WAS NOT CONCERNED
ABOUT HELPING ANYBODY  AND HE
COMMITTED A DERELICTION OF DUTY.
THEY SAID THEY BELIEVED THE
SENATE LET HIM OFF ON A
TECHNICALITY THAT THEY WERE MORE
CONCERNED IT WAS A
CONSTITUTIONALITY ISSUE AND NOT
NECESSARILY THAT HIS CONDUCT WAS
RIGHT OR WRONG. IT APPEARS THEY
FEEL GOOD
ABOUT THEIR KIDS AND WHAT THEY
DID HERE TODAY. THERE WAS A
QUESTION FROM A REPORTER POINTED
OUT WHEN YOU HAVE THE RAND PAUL
RESOLUTION A FEW WEEKS AGO
HE DID A TEST VOTE ON THE
CONSTITUTIONALITY, YOU ONLY HAVE
FIVE REPUBLICANS GO WITH
DEMOCRATS TO SAY THE IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL TO GO FORWARD. THIS
TUESDAY SIX REPUBLICANS WENT
WITH DEMOCRATS ON
CONSTITUTIONALITY AND TODAY YOU
HAVE SEVEN REPUBLICANS JOINING
DEMOCRATS IN THE CALL TO CONVICT
FORMER PRESIDENT TRUMP. THE
QUESTION WAS
IF THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
WOULD HAVE WAITED OR HAVE ADDED
MORE WITNESSES, COULD THAT MAYBE
HAVE GOTTEN THEM TO THE SUPER
MAJORITY TEXT THEY WERE ONLY SHY
10 VOTES. THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS WERE SAYING THIS IS NOT
THE POINT
. WE BROUGHT OUR CASE AND IT DID
APPEAL TO A NUMBER OF
REPUBLICANS AND I WOULD HAVE THE
MOST BIPARTISAN IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL EVER IN AMERICAN HISTORY
.
&gt;&gt; JAMES HOHMANN, WE WILL GO TO
YOU FOR MORE ON THAT. JAMIE
RASKIN DEFENDED THE DECISION TO
MOVE FORWARD WITHOUT WITNESSES,
BUT THE QUESTION GETS AT THE
HEART AT WHAT A LOT OF DEMOCRATS
AND SUPPORTERS  OF THE
DEMOCRATIC WING OF AMERICAN
GOVERNMENT ARE ASKING RIGHT NOW
PICTURE THEY HAVE PUSHED TO GET
WITNESSES AND WHY NOT? WHY NOT
JUST SLOW DOWN THE PROCESS AND
CALL THE WITNESSES?
&gt;&gt; IT IS SOMETHING THAT WILL BE
DEBATED IN PRIMARIES THE JAMIE
RASKIN  POINTED OUT IN RESPONSE
TO THE GREAT DEPRESSION
RHONDA HIGHLIGHTED THEY COULD'VE
CALLED 100 WITNESSES AND MITCH
McCONNELL WOULD HAVE DELIVERED
THAT EXACT SAME SPEECH ON THE
SENATE FLOOR . YOU DID HERE
SPEAKER PELOSI SAY THERE STILL
NEEDS TO BE AN INVESTIGATION TO
LEARN MORE
TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THE
FAILURES OF SECURITY PLANNING
THAT WE ARE CERTAINLY GOING TO
SEE MORE EVIDENCE EMERGE DURING
SOME OF THESE TRIALS. MORE THAN
200 PEOPLE HAVE BEEN CHARGED.
THERE IS A LOT OF PEOPLE AT THE
CAPITOL IS STILL NOT BEEN
CHARGED AND IT APPEARS PRESIDENT
BIDEN IS GOING TO KEEP AROUND
THE TRUMP APPOINTED U.S.
ATTORNEY FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA BECAUSE HE THINKS HE IS
DOING A GOOD JOB  AND YOU COULD
SEE MORE SERIOUS CHARGES
BROUGHT. THERE COULD BE
DISCOVERY IN THOSE CRIMINAL
CASES THAT IMPLICATES EITHER
TRUMP OR HIS CLOSE ALLIES. EVEN
IF THAT HAPPENED, CERTAINLY
THERE WAS A MISSED OPPORTUNITY
NOT GETTING TO THE BOTTOM OF
EVERYTHING GOING ON JANUARY 6.
STACEY PLASKETT MADE A GOOD
POINT WHEN SHE WALKED TO THE
MICROPHONE AND SAID REPUBLICANS
AND TRUMP ARE STILL LITIGATING
DON McGAHN'S TESTIMONY FROM THE
FIRST IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDING
MORE THAN A YEAR LATER THE HOUSE
POINTED TO THE FIRST IMPEACHMENT
THAT IS STILL CAUGHT UP IN THE
WASHINGTON, D.C.
CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS. THE
IDEA THIS COULD HAVE BEEN
BROUGHT TO FRUITION THE
WITNESSES YOU WANT TO HEAR FROM
THE MOST OR ALL WHO WOULD CLAIM
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE IN THE
CONSERVATIVE HAD A MAJORITY ON
THE SUPREME COURT'S HE COULD
DRAG THIS OUT FOR THE FULL FIRST
YEAR OF THE
JOE BIDEN PRESIDENCY. IS NOT
JUST THEY WANTED TO GET HOME TO
THEIR SPOUSES FOR VALENTINE'S
DAY. ONCE YOU OPEN UP THE BOX,
IT COULD GO ON AND ON AND THEN
YOU SAW THE CONGRESSMAN FROM
RHODE ISLAND, DAVID CICILLINE,
WHO SAID WE GOT INTO THE RECORD
WHAT WE WANTED TO GIVE.
&gt;&gt; DONALD TRUMP SAID THIS
MOVEMENT TO MAKE AMERICA GREAT
HAS ONLY JUST  BEGUN. STAY TUNED
FOR MORE FROM THE FORMER
PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; SHE IS NOT GOING AWAY. IS
BEEN MAKING PLANS TO COME BACK.
I THINK WE WILL SEE HIM MORE
SOON
. YOU COULD SEE THEM HOLD A
RALLY IN THE NEXT WEEK. IT WILL
BE FASCINATING TO SEE IF THIS
EMBOLDENS HIM  AND HE WAS
EMBOLDENED BY NOT GETTING
CONVICTED IN THE FIRST
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA COLVIN, WHAT ARE YOUR
FINAL THOUGHTS HERE AS WE SAY
GOODBYE TO THE SENATE  AND WATCH
WHAT HAPPENED NEXT?
&gt;&gt; Reporter: I THINK THE
DEMOCRATS ARE ENCOURAGED THEY
DID HAVE SEVEN REPUBLICANS JOIN
THEM
IN THE IDEA DONALD TRUMP SHOULD
BE CONVICTED THAT THEY'RE GOING
AWAY NOT LIKE LAST TIME WERE
SOME OF THEM WERE DISPIRITED AND
DISCOURAGED BY THE LUST
IMPEACHMENT. THIS TIME THEY SEE
SENATE REPUBLICANS TO JOIN THEM.
WHAT WE ARE WATCHING FOR NEXT
IS HOW THIS AFFECTS SENATE
REPUBLICANS AND HOUSE
REPUBLICANS. WHERE DO THEY GO
FROM HERE? NOW THAT THE FORMER
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS NOT HELD
ACCOUNTABLE FOR JANUARY 6, THEY
HAVE TO ADDRESS HIM IN THE PARTY
. HOW DOES THAT HAPPEN BETWEEN
NOW AND THE NEXT ELECTION CYCLE?
AS YOU JUST MENTIONED, HE MIGHT
TAKE THIS AS A TIME TO FEEL
EMBOLDENED THAT HAS BEEN A
CONCERN. WE ARE ALL GOING TO
HAVE TO WAIT AND SEE HOW THIS
PLAYS OUT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH , RHONDA
COLVIN AND JAMES HOHMANN
.  UNDER YOU POSTPONED TIME OFF
TO DO THIS. THANK YOU FOR YOUR
DEDICATION
.  IT IS A DRAMATIC DAY IN
AMERICAN POLITICS AND IT IS ONLY
FEBRUARY. THANK YOU TO ALL OF
THE PEOPLE HERE IN THE
WASHINGTON POST AS WELL AS TO
YOU  FOR WATCHING OUR BROADCAST.
I AM HANNAH JEWELL I WOULD LIKE
TO SAY TO YOU GOOD NIGHT AND WE
WILL SEE RIGHT HERE  AS THE NEWS
DEVELOPS.